"Border Town" TXT complete set

Author: Shen Congwen

The TXT content is shared by netizens of Classic Book Depository (jingdianbook.com) and is only used for communication among book friends. If you like the book, please purchase the genuine version.

Paragraph [1]: Inscription of "Border Town"

I have an indescribable tender love for farmers and soldiers, and this feeling can be seen everywhere in all my works. I never hide this feeling. I grew up in a small rural town like the one mentioned in the work. My grandfather, father and brothers were all in the military: those who died would not die on duty, and those who would not die would inevitably spend their entire lives on duty. To describe their loves, hates, sorrows and joys based on the side of the world that I have come into contact with, no matter how clumsy the pen is, it may not go too far away from the subject. Because they are upright and honest, some aspects of their lives are extremely great, some are extremely ordinary, some aspects of their temperaments are extremely beautiful, and some aspects are extremely trivial. When I started writing them, in order to make them more humane and more humane, I naturally wrote them honestly. But as a result, this work may inevitably become a useless undertaking.

According to the current trend, literary theorists, critics and most readers will easily arouse unpleasant feelings towards this kind of work. The former said he "does not fall behind the times" and told people that China does not need such works, while the latter "is too worried about falling behind the times" and is currently unwilling to read such works. This is of course true. What is "outdated"? A somewhat rational person may never understand it, but most people are not afraid of "falling behind"? I have something to say: "My book is not written for this majority of people." People who have read three or five Western-style books on literary theory and literary criticism, or have also read a lot of classic and modern world masterpieces, their life experience often does not allow them to know a little bit about another place in China in addition to being "erudite". Therefore, even if this work conforms to a certain literary theory, critics will praise it in various ways, but this kind of criticism still inevitably becomes an insult to the author. Since they do not want to understand the true love, hate and joy of this nation, they cannot explain the pros and cons of this work - this book was not written for them. As for literature and art lovers, they are either college students or middle school students in densely populated cities in the country. They often honestly and naively spend part of their precious time reading newly published domestic literary books. They are controlled and controlled by a habit formed by the collaboration of some theorists, critics, clever publishers, and literary journalists who are accustomed to lying and spreading rumors. Their lives are, at the same time, too far away from the world mentioned in this work. They don't need this kind of work, and this book doesn't want them. Theorists have literary theories published in various countries’ publications to refer to, so they don’t have to worry about running out of things to say; critics have writers and works to which they owe a small debt of gratitude, enough to denigrate them for the rest of their lives. Most readers, regardless of their tastes or beliefs, have works to read. Just because we care about the readers, aren't there many people who, it is said, are always turning like tops for the readers? Even though the publication of this book may not have been abandoned by the theoreticians and critics who lead the majority, and the majority of readers who are led by it may not completely give up on it, the author of this book has already deliberately given up on this "majority".

This book of mine is only intended for people who "have left school, or have never been able to get close to school, and who still know some Chinese characters, are in positions beyond the reach of literary theory, literary criticism, and lying and spreading news, live in that society, and are very concerned about the advantages and disadvantages of the entire nation in space and time." They really know what the countryside is now, and if they want to know what the countryside was like in the past, they must also be willing to learn about the rural areas and soldiers in a small corner of the world from this book. Even if the world I write about is a completely unfamiliar world to them, their tolerance and their enthusiasm for seeking comfort and knowledge from a book will definitely enable them to read the book calmly. I am not stopping there. I am also going to give them an opportunity for comparison. In another work, I will mention the twenty years of civil war, which caused the character and soul of some farmers who were the first to be affected to be suppressed by the force, and what kind of new thing they became after losing their original models of simplicity, thrift, peace, and integrity. How impoverished and lazy they became as a result of excessive taxation and the poison of opium! I will make a simple narrative about the worries of some small people in the changes as this nation is led by history towards an unknown destiny, and the concepts and desires of "survive" and "how to survive" due to insufficient nutrition. My readers should be rational, and this rationality is based on being concerned about the current social changes in China, understanding the past greatness and current degeneration of this nation, and the lonely people who are engaged in the great cause of national rejuvenation. This work may only give them a little nostalgic feeling, or it may only give them a wry smile, or it may give them a nightmare, but at the same time, maybe it can also give them a kind of courage and confidence!

Diary of April 24, 1934

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [2]: Chapter 1

one

From Sichuan to Hunan, there is an official road to the east. When the official road approached the border of western Hunan and reached a small mountain town called "Chatong", there was a small stream and a small white pagoda beside the stream. A single family lived under the pagoda. There is only an old man, a girl, and a yellow dog in this family.

The small stream flows down and around the mountain, and then merges into the big river of Chadong about three miles away. If one crosses the stream and walks over the hill, it will only take one mile to reach the edge of Chadong City. The stream is like the back of a bow, and the mountain road is like the string of a bow, so there is a slight difference between the distance and the distance. The creek is about twenty feet wide, and the river bed is made of large rocks. The quiet water may be so deep that a pole cannot reach the bottom, but it is still so clear and transparent that you can count the fish coming and going in the river. Since the creek is a thoroughfare between Sichuan and Hunan, the water often rises and falls. Due to financial constraints, it was not possible to build a bridge, so a square-headed ferry was arranged. This ferry, including people and horses, can carry about twenty passengers across the river at a time. When the number of people is large, it will come and go repeatedly. A small bamboo pole was erected on the bow of the ferry, and a movable iron ring was hung on it. A piece of waste cable was pulled by the water channel at both ends of the stream bank. When someone was transitioning, the iron ring was hung on the waste cable. The people on the boat would use their hands to climb the cable and slowly lead the boat across the other side. The boat was about to reach the shore. The man in charge of the ferry shouted "slow down, slow down", and he jumped onto the shore and pulled the iron ring. Then all the people, cargo, cattle and horses got on the shore, climbed over the hill and disappeared. The ferry is owned by the public, so the ferryman does not have to pay for it. Someone felt uneasy and grabbed a handful of money and threw it on the board. The ferryman would pick it up one by one and still stuff it into the man's hand. He said with a serious look as if he was arguing: "I have enough money. Three buckets of rice and seven hundred coins are enough. Who wants this!"

But it doesn’t work. I want peace of mind in everything. Who would be embarrassed if I don’t get paid for my efforts? Some people will still take the money anyway. The shipkeeper couldn't help it, and for the sake of peace of mind, he sent the money to Chadong to buy tea and tobacco. He hung bundles of high-quality tobacco produced in Chadong on his belt. He would give it generously to anyone who needed it. Sometimes when I guess from the air that the person traveling far away has attracted considerable attention to the grass smoke around him, I put a small bunch of grass smoke on the person's baggage and say, "Why don't you smoke this? It's good, it's wonderful, it tastes good, and it's appropriate to give it away!" In June, the tea leaves are put into a large vat, soaked in boiling water, and given to passers-by to quench the thirst of passers-by.

The man who manages this ferry is the old man who lives under the tower. He has lived for seventy years, and has been guarding this creek since he was twenty years old. In the past fifty years, he has ferried countless people in his boat. Even though he is so old. It was time for him to rest, but God did not allow him to rest. It seemed that he could not leave this part of his life. He never thought about the significance of his position to himself, he just lived there quietly and faithfully. It replaced the sky, allowing him to feel the power of life when the sun rose, and when the sun set, he would not think about the girl who died at the same time as the sun. His only friends are a ferry boat and a yellow dog, and his only relative is that girl.

The girl's mother, the only daughter of an old boatman, had an affair with a Chadong soldier fifteen years ago, secretly behind the back of her loyal father. After having a child, the garrison sergeant wanted to ask her to escape downstream together. But judging from the behavior of escaping, one violated the responsibility of a soldier, and the other had to leave his lonely father. After some consideration, the soldier saw that she did not have the courage to go far away and that he could not ruin his reputation as a soldier, so he thought to himself: If we die together, we can't get together, so if we die together, no one can stop her, so he took the poison first. The woman is concerned about the piece of meat in her belly, can't bear it, and can't come up with an idea. The matter had already been known to my father, who was a ferryman, but my father did not add a significant word. He just acted as if he had never heard of the matter and continued to live peacefully. The daughter felt shame on one side and compassion on the other, and stayed by her father's side. After the child was born, she went to the stream and ate a lot of cold water and died. In something close to a miracle, the orphan actually grew up and turned thirteen in the blink of an eye. The old boatman came here to live in a place where there are many bamboos and green colors on the two mountains. The old boatman casually picked up a close name for the poor orphan and called it "Cui Cui".

The greenery has grown up in the wind and sun, turning the skin black, and the green mountains and green waters are visible to the eye, and a pair of eyes are as clear as crystal. Nature has raised her and educated her. She is innocent and lively, just like a little animal in every aspect. He is also so good, like a mountain deer, he never thinks of cruel things, never worries, and never gets angry. Usually when she met a stranger on the ferry and noticed her, she would look at the stranger with bare eyes, pretending to be ready to run away into the mountains at any time. But after understanding that people have no intention, she would calmly play by the water again.

The old boatman will always stay at the bow of the boat, rain or shine. When someone was making the transition, they would bend down slightly and use their hands to guide the bamboo cables to cross the boat across the stream. Sometimes she got tired and fell asleep lying on the big rocks near the stream. People on the other side waved and called for transition. Cuicui wouldn't let her grandfather get up, so she jumped out of the boat and quickly helped her grandfather cross the river. She did everything smoothly and never missed anything. Sometimes I was on the boat with my grandfather's yellow dog. During the transition, I and my grandfather worked together. When the boat was approaching the shore, and my grandfather was greeting the guests: "Slow down, slow down," the yellow dog held the rope in its mouth and jumped up first. As if it knew how to do its duty, it held the rope tightly and pulled the tug to the shore.

The weather was clear and windy, no one was passing by, and the town was long and leisurely. Grandfather and Cuicui sat on the big rock in front of the door to bask in the sun. Or throw a piece of wood from a high place into the water, and make the yellow dog next to you jump down from the high place on the rock to bring the wood back. Or Cuicui and Huang Gou both opened their ears, listening to their grandfather telling stories about wars in the city many years ago. Or grandfather and Cuicui, each holding a recorder made of small bamboo, playing tunes to welcome brides and send off daughters. When the ferryman came, the old boatman put down his bamboo pipe and followed the boat alone. Crossing the stream to cross the river, one of the people on the rock saw the boat moving, so he shouted sharply:

"Grandpa, grandpa, you listen to me playing and you sing!"

When grandpa reached the middle of the stream, he sang happily. The hoarse voice and the sound of bamboo pipes oscillated in the quiet air, and the stream seemed to be more lively. (In fact, the return of singing makes everything quieter.)

Sometimes the transition is the calves passing through Chadong from eastern Sichuan, the sheep, or the bride's sedan chair. Cuicui will try to be the ferryman, standing on the bow of the boat, lazily climbing on the cable to let the boat pass slowly. After the cattle and sheep sedan came ashore, Cuicui followed them and stood on the top of the hill. Watching these things go a long way, she turned back to the boat and brought it closer to the shore of her home. And alone, she may lowly imitate the braying of a lamb or the braying of a cow, or pick a handful of wild flowers and tie them on her head to dress up the bride alone.

Chadong Mountain City is only a mile away from Dutou. When buying oil and salt, or when my grandfather had to drink a glass of wine during the holidays, my grandfather would not go to the city, so the yellow dog would accompany Cuicui into the city to prepare things. When we arrived at the grocery store, there were a lot of vermicelli, a big vat of sugar, firecrackers, and red candles. Everyone left a deep impression on Cuicui. When she returned to her grandfather, she always talked about these things for a long time. There are many boats on the river there, and hundreds of boatmen are busy loading and unloading groceries. This kind of boat is much larger than the ferry boat, much more interesting, and Cuicui is not easy to forget. two

The city of Chadong was built on the water and close to the mountain. On the side near the mountain, the city wall was like a long snake, climbing along the mountain. On the water side, there is room on the riverside outside the city to set up a pier, and small tent boats can be berthed in the bay. When the boat goes down, it carries tung oil, green salt, and dyed rafts. Upstream, cotton, yarn, cloth, groceries, and seafood are transported. There is a river street running through each dock. Most of the houses are on the ground and half on the water. Because of the limited space, all of the houses are equipped with stilts. Spring water rose in the river, and when the water gradually entered the streets, people on the river street used long ladders, one end of which was placed on the eaves of the house, and the other end on the city wall. Everyone cursed and shouted, brought their baggage, bedding, and rice jars, and entered the city from the ladder. When the water receded, they left the city through the city gate. If the water comes particularly fiercely in a certain year, one or two of the stilted buildings along the river will be washed away by the flood, and everyone will stare at them from the top of the city. Those who suffered losses also stared blankly, as if they had nothing to say about the losses they suffered, similar to how they see other irreparable misfortunes coming under the arrangement of nature. When the water rises, you can still look at the suddenly widening river surface from the city. The flowing water is mighty and mighty. Along with the mountains and rivers, there are houses, cattle, sheep and big trees floating up from the upper stream. So in the slow water, there are often people driving small sampans in front of the customs barges. When they see an animal, a small piece of wood, or an empty boat coming up and down in the middle of the river, and there is a woman or a child crying on the boat, they quickly paddle out. Some people downstream meet the target, tie it with a long rope, and then paddle toward the shore. These honest and brave people also love profit and are righteous, similar to ordinary locals. He does not only save people and things, but he also does it very quickly and bravely in a joyful and adventurous behavior, which makes people unable to help but applaud him.

That river is the famous Youshui in history, and its new name is Baihe. When the Baihe River reaches the lower reaches of Chenzhou and joins the Yuanshui River, it becomes slightly turbid and resembles mountain spring water. If you go upstream, you will see the bottom of the deep pool three to five feet clear. The deep pool is reflected in the daylight, and the small white pebbles and patterned agate pebbles on the bottom of the river are all clearly visible. Fish swimming in the water come and go as if they are floating in the air. There are many high mountains on both sides of the Taiwan Strait, and there are many thin bamboos in the mountains that can be used to make paper. Their deep green color is eye-catching all year round. Most of the houses near the water are among the peach and apricot flowers. In spring, you only need to pay attention. Wherever there are peach blossoms, there must be a house, and wherever there are houses, there must be a place to sell wine. In summer, the purple cloth clothes and trousers that are dried in the sun can be used as flags for people's homes. When autumn and winter come, the houses on the cliffs and on the waterfront are all clearly visible. The yellow mud walls and black tiles are always well placed and harmonize well with the surrounding environment, making the impression one gets upon one's face a very pleasant one. A traveler who is slightly interested in poetry and pictures will not be bored by hunkering down in a small boat for thirty days in this small river, precisely because there are miracles everywhere, and the boldness and ingenuity of nature are all fascinating.

The source of Baihe River comes from the border of Sichuan. Boats traveling upstream from Baihe River can go directly to the beautiful mountains of Sichuan during the spring water. But in the Hunan realm, Chadong is the last water pier. Although the surface of this river is about half a mile wide in Chadong, when the water falls in autumn and winter, the riverbed is less than 20 feet where it flows, and the rest is just a pool of bluestone. After the boat arrives, it has no way to go up, so all import and export goods from the east of Sichuan are dropped into the water and landed from this place. The export goods are all carried by porters with fir poles on their shoulders, and the import goods are also moved from here in bunches and loaders by manpower.

There is only one garrison battalion adapted from the former Green Camp garrison stationed in the city, and about 500 households. (Except for some of these households who own some fields and oil mills, or are small capitalists who post accounts for oil, rice, and cotton yarn, most of the others are families with military status who came here when they were stationed in the garrison.) There is also a leasing bureau in the place. Its office is in a small temple under He Street outside the city, and a long banner is often hung on it. The director lives in the city. A battalion of soldiers was stationed at Laoshenjiang's Yamen. Except for the buglers who went to the city every day to play trumpets and let people know that there were troops stationed here, the rest of the soldiers seemed not to exist. In the winter day, when I go to the city, I see clothes and vegetables hanging out in front of people’s doors everywhere. Sweet potato vines hang from the eaves. Bags made of brown clothes, filled with chestnuts, hazelnuts and other hard-shelled fruits, were often hung under the eaves. There are big and small chickens crowing and playing in various corners of the house. Occasionally, a man would occupy the doorway in front of his house, sawing wood, or chop trees with an axe, and pile the chopped wood into the open ground, one by one like pagodas. Or you can see several middle-aged women, wearing hard-starched blue cloth clothes and white cloth buttoned aprons hanging on their chests, hunched over in the sun, talking and doing things. Everything is always so quiet, and every day of all people passes in this kind of pure loneliness. A moment of silence increases people's ability to think about "human affairs" and increases their dreams. Everyone who lives in this small town must have certain expectations for love and hate in people and things in their assigned days. But what are these people thinking? Who knows. Living in a higher place in the city, you can overlook the opposite river and the scenery in the river from a stop in front of the door. When the boat comes, you can watch countless trackers from a distance on the opposite river beach. The trackers also brought small snacks such as candies from the lower reaches and brought them into the city to exchange for money when they reached the shore. When the boat comes, the child's imagination is on the side of those pulling the boat. As for the adults, they hatch a nest of chickens, raise two pigs, ask the boatman to make a pair of gold earrings, and bring back two feet of official blue cloth, a jar of good soy sauce, and a double-made Mobil lampshade, which takes up the hearts of most housewives.

Although this small town is so quiet and peaceful, it is the hub of commercial transactions in eastern Sichuan, so the situation in Xiaohe Street outside the city is a little different. There are also inns where businessmen stay and barber shops where they stay. In addition, restaurants, grocery stores, oil shops, salt stores, and flower shops all have their own status and decorate this river street. There is also a shop that sells sandalwood carts, bamboo cables and pots and pans used on ships, and introduces sailors to people who eat on the dock. On the long table in front of the small restaurant, there is often fried carp tofu, decorated with red pepper shreds, lying in a shallow mouth bowl. There are a lot of red chopsticks in the big bamboo tube next to the bowl. Anyone who is willing to spend some money can sit down by the long table in front of the door and take out a pair of chopsticks. Over there, a woman with very thin eyebrows and white powder on her face will He came over and asked, "Brother, deputy, do you want sweet wine? Do you want soju?" The man, who was more fiery, humorous, and somewhat interesting to the shopkeeper, would pretend to be angry and said, "Eating sweet wine? I'm not a child, and you ask for sweet wine!" Then, the strong soju was scooped out of the big vat with a bamboo tube, poured into the earthen bowl, and immediately came to the desk next to him. Grocery stores sell Mobil oil, lamps for burning Mobil oil, and paper for incense candles. Youxingtuntung oil. Green salt from the fire well in the salt stack. Huayizhuang sells white cotton yarn, large cloth, cotton and black crepe from Baotou. Those who sell boat supplies have everything listed and everything is ready. Sometimes there is an anchor weighing more than a hundred kilograms lying on the roadside outside the door, waiting for the buyer to ask for a price. Their business is to introduce sailors, and those who eat on the docks live in their homes on He Street. The door is open all day long, and shipowners in blue-feathered satin mandarins and sloppy sailors often come in and out. The place looks like a teahouse but does not sell tea. It is not an opium house but you can smoke. Although those who come here are talking about business on the boat, there are certain rules for people on and off the boat, and there is no need to discuss numbers. Most of them came here to "get together." Focusing on "leading affairs", we will talk about local current affairs, business situations in the two provinces, and "new things" in the downstream. Most of the people who are invited to the party will be here when collecting money, and the first round of gatherings where the dice are played to see what the points are is often held here. There are two things that often become their business experience: buying and selling ships and buying and selling wives.

With the development of commerce in the metropolis, there are some kind of sojourners. Because of the needs of merchants and sailors, there is actually a group of people on Hejie Street in this small border town, gathering in some houses with stilts. This kind of women were either brought from the nearby countryside or were women who came to Hunan with the Sichuan army. They wore fake silk clothes and calico trousers, their eyebrows were pulled into a thin line, and their big buns were covered with extremely fragrant and vulgar oil. During the day, when I had nothing to do, I would sit at the door and make shoes, embroidering two phoenixes with red and green silk thread on the toes of my shoes, or pick out an embroidered armband for my sailor lover, and spend the long days watching the passers-by. Or you can lean against the river window and watch the sailors selling goods, or listen to the sailors climbing the mast and singing. In the evening, they took turns receiving merchants and sailors, fulfilling the duties of a "prostitute".

Due to the simple customs in the border areas, even if you work as a "prostitute", you will always be honest. When you meet someone you don't know well, you have to pay money first before doing business, and then close the door and go wild. Once you get to know the person, money becomes dispensable. "Prostitutes" mostly relied on Sichuan merchants to support themselves, but most of their benevolence was with sailors. Those who were in a good relationship bit each other's mouths and necks and made an oath, agreeing that "no one is allowed to mess around after the breakup." For forty or fifty days, the one floating on the boat and the one staying on the shore stayed and passed the days, tightly binding their hearts to someone far away. In particular, the woman's feelings are sincere and indescribable. The man will not come back after the agreed time. When he dreams, he always dreams of the boat approaching the shore and a man swinging from the gangplank to the shore and running straight towards her. Or if you have doubts during the day, you will see a man on the mast singing to the other side in the dream, but ignore you. Those with a weaker character then threw themselves into the river and swallowed opium smoke in their dreams, while those with a stronger character ran straight towards the sailor with a kitchen knife in hand. Although their lives are so alienated from the general society, when tears and joy are mixed into the lives of these people through a kind of love and hate, they are similar to other young lives in another land. Their whole bodies and minds are soaked in that little bit of love and hate, and they forget everything else. If there are any differences, it's just that these people are more realistic and closer to confusion. Short-term appointments, long-term marriages, temporary closures, these transactions concerning a woman's body, due to the simplicity of the people, those who take the matter seriously do not feel it is so shameful, and onlookers never use the concept of a scholar to criticize and despise them. These people value righteousness over profit, but are also trustworthy and self-restrained. Even if they are prostitutes, they are often more trustworthy than people in the city who are ethical and know their shame.

The man in charge of the water dock is named Shun Shun, a man who has been in the army since the Qing Dynasty. During the revolution, he served as a commander at the famous Army Forty-nine Base. Some of them were doing great things, some of them became great men and famous people because of the revolution, some of them beheaded and dismembered their corpses. However, he returned to his hometown with his feet that were so painful due to the happy event as a young man. He bought a six-oared white wooden boat with the little money he had saved, and rented it to a poor boat owner to load the goods for him and travel between Chadong and Chenzhou. With good luck, the ship would be in good condition within half a year, so with the money he earned, he begged a little widow with a fair face and black hair who had some wealth. A few years later, he had four boats, a shop, and two sons on this river.

But this generous and free-spirited person, although his career is very smooth, but because he likes to make friends, is generous and can help others in need, he cannot have the same violent outbursts as the oil merchants. Since I have lived a life of food, I understand the hardships of people who travel, and understand the mood of frustrated people. Therefore, I will try my best to help all the boatmen who went bankrupt due to shipwrecks, veterans who passed by, scholars who traveled to this place, and anyone who came to this place and was famous for asking for help. While making money from the water, the other side was free and easy. Although this man has a slight problem with his feet, he can still swim. He cannot walk very well, but he is so fair and selfless. Everything on the water is originally extremely simple, and everything is governed by a habit. Which boat collides, or which boat interferes with the interests of another person or another boat, are all solved in customary ways. But to use this kind of custom and rules to regulate everything, there must be a senior and virtuous central figure. One autumn, the original deacon died, and Shun Shun became such a replacement. He was only fifty years old at that time. He was a sensible, upright and peaceful man who did not love money, so no one doubted his age.

As of now, his eldest son is eighteen years old and his youngest son is sixteen years old. Both young men were as strong as young bullocks, capable of sailing, swimming, and walking long distances. They can do everything that young people from small towns and cities can do, and they can do everything well. The older ones, like their father, are bold and open-minded, and do not stick to routines. The younger one has a temperament similar to that of her mother, who has a white face and black hair. She doesn't like to talk, but her eyebrows are prominent. One glance at her shows that she is smart and emotional.

Now that the two brothers have grown up, it is necessary to train them in various aspects of life, so the father takes turns sending the two children to travel. When going down the boat, he often followed his own boat to serve as a companion, sharing the joys and sorrows with others. When rowing, he chooses the heaviest one, and when he pulls the back, he pulls the head and the second fiber. He eats dried fish, spicy peppers, and smelly pickled vegetables, and sleeps on the hard cabin board. Going up the dry road, I followed the passengers and goods from eastern Sichuan, passing through Xiushan and Longtan, and doing business in Youyang. No matter it was cold, hot, rainy or snowy, I would wear straw sandals and rush at the station. He was wearing a short knife, and if he had to use it as a last resort, he would quickly pull out the knife, stand in an open space, wait for the person on the opposite side, and then fight with this person in hand-to-hand combat. The ethos in the gang is that "you must use a knife to deal with enemies, and you must use a knife to connect friends." Therefore, when a knife is needed, they will never let it lose that opportunity. Learn trade, learn to socialize, learn to live in a new place, and learn to use a knife to protect your body and reputation. The purpose of education seems to be to enable the two children to learn the courage and loyalty to be a human being. As a result of a little education, both of them were as strong as tigers, but also kind-hearted, not arrogant, lazy, flashy, and do not rely on power to dominate others. Therefore, when the father and son were mentioned by others on the border of Chadong, everyone respected this name.

When the father's two sons are very young, he realizes that the elder son is similar to him in everything, but he does tend to dote on the second son a little. Because of this unconscious selfishness, he named his eldest son Tianbao and his second son Nuosong. It means that God bless people, and there may be discord in human affairs. As for what the Nuo God sent, according to local customs, people cannot despise it. Nuosong was very beautiful, but the Chadong boat family was too embarrassed to praise this beauty, so they only named him "Yue Yun". Although no one has seen Yue Yun with their own eyes, they have a general impression of Yue Yun, but they got a similar look from the stage actor Yue Yun. three

At the border between the two provinces, the person who has been in charge of the local military for more than ten years has focused on being conservative in Anji, and handled the situation in a lawful manner, and no accidents occurred. Maritime and land commerce was neither affected by war nor affected by bandits. Everything was extremely orderly and the people were content and happy. Except for these people who feel very sad when a cow dies in their family, a boat capsizes, or other major fatal events occur, and they are stumbled by a misfortune, it seems that the people in this border town will never be aware of the misfortunes and struggles in other parts of China.

The most lively days of the year in the border town are the Dragon Boat Festival, Mid-Autumn Festival and Chinese New Year. How these three festivals excited the people of this place thirty or fifty years ago have not changed much until now, and they can still become the most meaningful days for the residents of that place.

On Dragon Boat Festival, local women and children all wear new clothes and have the character "王" drawn on their foreheads with realgar dipped in wine. Anyone can eat fish and meat on this day. At about eleven o'clock in the morning, all the people in Chadong had lunch. After eating, those who lived in the city locked their doors and went out of the city to the river to watch the rowing boats. If you have acquaintances on He Street, you can go to the entrance of the stilted building on He Street to watch. Otherwise, you can stand at the tax gate and various piers to watch. The dragon boat in the river starts somewhere in Changtan and ends in front of the customs. Compete in competitions. Because on this day, military tax collectors and local people with status all watched the excitement in front of the customs. Everyone had made preparations for rowing a few days ago. They were divided into groups and each selected a number of young men with strong bodies and agile hands to practice advancing and retreating in the pool. The shape of the boats is very different from ordinary wooden boats. They are all long and narrow, with both ends raised high, and long red lines painted on the hulls. They are usually placed in dry caves by the river during normal seasons. When they are needed, they are dragged down into the water. Each boat can accommodate twelve to eighteen oarsmen, a leader, a drummer, and a gong player. The oarsmen each hold a short oar and row the boat forward to the slow beat of the drum. Sitting on the bow of the ship, with a red cloth bun wrapped around his head, he held two small flags in his hands and waved them left and right to direct the advancement and retreat of the ship. Those who play drums and gongs usually sit in the middle of the boat. As soon as the boat is rowed, they will immediately start beating the gongs and drums simply to adjust the oar rhythm for the oarsmen. The speed of a boat depends on the sound of drums, so whenever the competition between two boats becomes fierce, the sound of drums is like thunder, coupled with the cheers of people on both sides of the bank, it reminds people of Liang Hongyu's water battle and drum beating in the Old Stork River, and Niu Gao's water battle and drum beating when he captured Yang Yao in the water. Anyone who rows the boat to the front will be rewarded in front of the customs. A red horse and a small silver medal can be hanged on the head of someone on the boat without restraint, which shows the glory of the cooperation of the boat. Good soldiers, and every time a certain ship wins, they will set off some 500 firecrackers at the water's edge to celebrate the victory.

After the boat race, the garrison commander in the city, in order to have fun with the people and increase the joy of this festival, put thirty green-headed and long-necked male ducks with red cloth strips tied around their necks and put them into the river. Soldiers and civilians who were good at swimming went into the water to chase the ducks. Whoever catches the duck becomes the duck's owner. So Changtan changed its appearance. Ducks were everywhere on the water, and there were people chasing ducks everywhere.

The race between boats and men and ducks cannot be completed until nightfall.

Shun Shun, the leader of the water pier, was an expert swimmer when he was young. He chased ducks in the water and never failed under any circumstances. But when the second son, Nuosong, was over twelve years old, he was able to go into the water and immerse himself next to the ducks. Then he suddenly emerged from the water and caught the ducks. But going into the water to save people is a different matter. Anyone who helps people stay away from trouble is entering the fire. Even when a person is eighty years old, it still becomes an unavoidable responsibility for this person!

Both Tianbao and Nuosong are good local swimmers and rowers.

The Dragon Boat Festival is coming soon again. On the fifth day of the Lunar New Year, there is a meeting on Hejie Street and it is decided that the boat belonging to Hejie Street will enter the water that day. Tianbao happened to be traveling up that day, and he followed the overland merchants across Longtan in eastern Sichuan to deliver holiday goods, so only Nuo was the one who participated. Sixteen young men as strong as calves brought incense candles, firecrackers, and a tall drum covered with raw cowhide and painted with a vermilion Tai Chi picture. They went to the cave upstream of the river where the boat was parked. They burned incense candles, dragged the boat into the water, and everyone got on the boat. They lit firecrackers and beat drums. The boat quickly shot down the Changtan downstream like an arrow.

It was still morning at that time, and in the afternoon, the fisherman's dragon boat on the opposite river was also launched into the water, and the two dragon boats began to preview various competition methods. The sound of drums was heard for the first time on the water, and many people felt the joy of the approaching festival from the sound of the drums. Those who live in a stilted building near the river are waiting and looking forward to the people far away, and they all think of those far away because of the sound of drums. During this festival, there must be many ships that can rush back, and many ships that only meet halfway to celebrate the festival. During this period, there are some human affairs, sorrows and joys that are difficult to see. In the river streets of this small mountain city, some people are doing business, and some people are frowning.

The sound of fluffy drums swept across the water and mountains to the ferry bow, and the first thing I noticed was the yellow dog. The yellow dog barked and walked around the house as if it was frightened. When someone passed by, it would cross the east bank of the river with the boat and run to the top of the hill to bark towards the city.

Cuicui was sitting on the big stone outside the door and playing with weaving grasshoppers and centipedes from palm leaves. She saw the yellow dog first fell asleep in the sun, suddenly woke up and ran around like crazy. After crossing the river and coming back again, she asked it and scolded it:

"Dog, dog, what are you doing! Don't do this!"

But after a while she discovered the sound, so she ran around the house, crossed the stream with the yellow dog, and stood on the top of the hill listening for a long time, letting the charming drum sound take her to a past festival.

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

Paragraph [3]: Chapter 2

Four

That was two years ago. On Dragon Boat Festival in May, my grandfather found someone to replace him at the ferry head, so he took the yellow dog and Cuicui into the city and crossed the river to watch the boating. The riverside was full of people, and four red long boats were sliding in the pool. The dragon boat water had just risen, and the water in the river was all green. The weather was so bright, the drums were beating loudly, and Cuicui pursed her lips without saying a word. Her heart was filled with indescribable happiness. There were too many people by the river, and everyone looked into the river with their eyes wide open. After a while, the yellow dog was still around, but my grandfather was crowded out of sight.

While Cuicui was paying attention to rowing, she thought to herself, "Grandpa will find him soon." But after a long time, her grandfather still didn't come, so Cuicui became a little panicked. First, the day before the two of them entered the city with the yellow dog, their grandfather asked Cuicui: "Tomorrow, if you go boating in the city alone, will you be afraid of the crowds?" Cuicui said, "I'm not afraid of many people, but it's not fun to be alone." So my grandfather thought for a long time, then remembered an old acquaintance who lived in the city, and went to the city at night to discuss it. He invited the old man to watch the ferry for a day, while he accompanied Cuicui to the city for a day. And because the man was lonelier than the old man on the ferry, with no relatives or a dog around him, he made an appointment with the man to come over to his house in the morning for dinner and a glass of realgar wine. The next day the man came. After having dinner and entrusting the man with his duties, Cuicui and others entered the city. On the way, his grandfather seemed to remember something and asked Cuicui again, "Cui Cui, Cui Cui, there are so many people and it's so lively. Do you dare to go to the river alone to watch the dragon boats?" Cui Cui said, "Why not? But what's the point of being alone?" After arriving at the river, the four red boats in the Changtan completely occupied Cuicui's attention, and her grandfather seemed to be beside her. Grandfather thought to himself: "It's still early, and it will take at least three hours before the end. That friend by the stream should also come and see the excitement of the young people. Go back and change places in time." So he asked Cuicui, "There are too many people, just stand here and watch, don't move. I have something to do elsewhere, and I will come back to accompany you home anyway." Cuicui was fascinated by the two boats racing side by side, and she agreed without thinking about what her grandfather said. Grandfather knew that the yellow dog might be more stable by Cuicui's side than he was by her side, so he went home to watch the boat.

When my grandfather arrived at the ferry, he saw his old friend, Wen, who had replaced him, standing under the white tower and listening to the sound of drums in the distance.

Grandfather called to him and asked him to pull the boat over. The two of them crossed the stream and stood under the white tower. The man asked the old boatman why he came back again, and the grandfather said that he wanted to leave Cuicui by the river for him for a while, and then rushed back so that he could cross the river to see the excitement. Cuicui asked her, Cuicui will go home by then. The little girl doesn't dare to go home, so just go with her for a walk!" But the substitute was no longer interested in watching the dragon boat, but he was willing to drink two more glasses of soju with the old boatman on the big rocks by the stream. The old boatman was very happy, took out the gourd and pushed it to the one from the city. The two of them talked about old Dragon Boat Festival events and drank wine. After a while, the man was drunk on soju on the rock.

The man was drunk and had no way to enter the city, and his grandfather was inconvenient to leave with the ferry because of his responsibility. Cuicui, who stayed by the river, had to be anxious.

After the rowers in the river decided the final outcome, the city officer had already sent someone to release a group of ducks in a small boat in the pond, but my grandfather had not yet come. Cuicui was afraid that her grandfather was waiting for her somewhere, so she took the yellow dog and walked through the crowds to look for her grandfather, but she still couldn't find any trace of her grandfather. Later, I saw that it was getting dark, and the soldiers who had carried the benches out of the city to watch the excitement had already carried the benches home one after another. There are only three or five ducks left in the pond, and the number of duck catchers is gradually decreasing. The setting sun sets towards the side of Cuicui's house upstream, and the river surface is decorated with a layer of mist at dusk. When Cuicui saw this scene, she suddenly had a frightening thought. She thought, "What if grandpa dies?"

She remembered her grandfather's words about telling her not to leave the place where she came from, and she explained her error in thinking. She thought that if her grandfather didn't come, he must have gone to the city or to an acquaintance, and was dragged to drink, so he couldn't come for a while. Because this was possible, and she didn't want to rush home with the yellow dog before it got dark, she had no choice but to stand by the stone pier and wait for her grandfather.

After a while, the two long boats across the river were moored in the creek across the river and disappeared, and almost all the people watching the dragon boats dispersed. The houses where prostitutes live on stilted houses have lights on, and there are people playing small spotted drums, playing yueqin and singing songs. In other houses, there were noisy sounds of fist-fighting and drinking. At the same time, on some boats moored under the stilted building, people were setting out wine and cooking, making a squeaking sound when they poured vegetables, radishes and the like into the hot oil pan. The surface of the river was hazy, and it looked like there was only one duck floating in the pool, and only one person was left chasing the duck.

Cuicui still did not leave the dock, always believing that her grandfather would come to her and go home with her.

The sound of singing songs on the stilted building became more lively, and I could only hear people talking on the boat below. One sailor said: "Jin Ting, you heard your shop singing songs with the merchants from eastern Sichuan while drinking. I bet my finger that this is her voice!" Another sailor said: "She drank and sang songs with them, and I thought Rico misses me. She knows I'm on the ship!" The previous one said: "My body is being played by others, but my heart is still thinking of you; what evidence do you have?" The other said: "There is evidence." Then the sailor whistled and made a strange sign, and after a while, the singing stopped. When the singing stopped, both sailors laughed. The two then talked about everything about that woman, using a lot of vulgar words. Cuicui was not used to hearing such words, but she couldn't walk away. One of the sailors said that the father of the woman upstairs was killed in Mianmianpo, with a total of seventeen stab wounds. The strange thought in Cuicui's mind, "Grandpa is dead?" still occupied her heart for a while.

The two sailors were still talking, and the white duck in the pond slowly swam towards the dock where Cuicui was. Cuicui thought: "If you come closer, I will catch you!" So she waited quietly, but when the duck was about three feet away from the shore, someone smiled and called to the sailor on the boat. It turned out that there was another person in the water. The person had caught the duck, but he slowly "kicked the water" and swam closer to the shore. The people on the boat heard the shouts from the water and faintly shouted: "Second old man, second old man, you are really good, you must have got five today." The man on the water said: "This guy is very cunning, now it belongs to me." "You must have the same ability to catch ducks now and women in the future." The one on the water said no more, patted the water with his hands and feet and came to the dock. When she climbed onto the shore dripping wet, the yellow dog next to Cuicui barked a few times as if to warn the person in the water, and then the person noticed Cuicui. There was no one else on the pier, so the man asked:

"Who is it?"

"It's Cuicui!"

"Who is Cuicui?"

"She's Bixi's granddaughter who runs the ferry."

"What are you doing here?"

"I'm waiting for my grandpa. I'm waiting for him to come so I can go home."

"He won't come when he comes. Your grandfather must have been drinking in the military camp in the city. He was drunk and was carried back!"

"He won't. If he promises to come, he will definitely come."

"There's no point in waiting here. Go to my house, go upstairs to the lit room over there, and wait for grandpa to come find you, okay?"

Cuicui misunderstood the kindness of the man who invited him into the house. She was remembering the scandal about women told by the sailor. She thought that the man wanted her to go upstairs where women were singing. She had never cursed anyone. At this time, because she had been waiting for her grandfather for too long, she was very anxious. When she heard that she was asked to go up, she thought she had been insulted, so she said softly:

"You're the one who chops off your head at the wrong time!"

Although the words were spoken softly, the man could hear Cuicui's age from his voice, so he said with a smile: "Why, you're swearing! If you don't want to go up, you have to stay here. If you turn around and a big fish comes to bite you in the water, don't scream!"

Cuicui said: "I don't care about you even if the fish bites you."

The yellow dog seemed to understand that Cuicui was being bullied, and started barking again. The man raised the white duck in his hand, frightened the yellow dog, and walked onto the river street. The yellow dog wanted to chase him because he was being bullied, so Cuicui shouted: "Dog, dog, even if you bark at people, you don't want to bark!" Cuicui seemed to mean to ask the dog, "That frivolous man is not worthy of barking," but what the man heard was another kind of good intention. The man thought she was asking the dog not to bark at good people, smiled wildly, and disappeared.

After a while, someone took a torch made from waste cables from He Street and called Cuicui's name to look for her. When he arrived, Cuicui didn't recognize the person. The man said: The old boatman returned home and could not come to pick her up, so he took a transit letter and asked Cuicui if he wanted her to go back immediately. Cuicui heard that it was sent by her grandfather, so she went home with the man, letting the torchlighter lead the way. The yellow dog walked forward and backward together along the city wall towards the ferry. As Cuicui walked, she asked the person holding the torch. Whoever asked him would know that she was by the river (jingdianbook.com). The man said that the second elder asked him. He was a clerk in the second elder's house, and he had to go back to He Street after sending Cuicui home.

Cuicui said: "How did the second old man know that I was by the river?"

The man smiled and said, "He came back from catching ducks in the river and met you on the pier. He said he would like to invite you to sit at home and wait for your grandpa, and you even scolded him!"

Cuicui asked softly with a little surprise: "Who is the second elder?"

The man was also a little surprised and said: "You don't know about the two elders? It's the Nuosong Erlao from our He Street! It's Yue Yun! He asked me to take you back!" Nuosong Erlao is not an unfamiliar name in Chadong!

Cuicui thought of her previous curse words and felt surprised and shy. She said nothing more and silently followed the torch.

After crossing the hill and seeing the light of the fire in the house across the river, Cuicui also saw the torch on Cuicui's side. The old boatman immediately pulled the boat over. While pulling the boat, he shouted hoarsely: "Cui Cui, Cuicui, is it you?" Cuicui ignored her grandfather and said, But Zhong said softly: "It's not Cuicui, it's not Cuicui. Cuicui has been eaten by the carp in the river." Cuicui got on the boat, and the people sent by the two elders left with torches. Grandfather took the boat and asked: "Cui Cui, why don't you agree to me, are you angry with me?"

Cuicui stood at the bow of the boat and remained silent. Cuicui complained about her grandfather a little, but it was over after she pulled the boat across the stream, arrived at home, and saw the other drunk old man clearly. But another thing, which belonged to her and had nothing to do with her grandfather, made Cuicui silent for a whole night. five

Two years have passed.

In the past two years, there happened to be no moon to see during the two Mid-Autumn Festivals. In the border towns, the stories of men and women singing all night long because of the moon could not be held as scheduled. Therefore, the impression left by the two Mid-Autumn Festivals on Cuicui was extremely ordinary. During the two New Years, as usual, you can see lions and dragon lanterns from the military camp and from all over the country, welcoming the spring in the small teaching ground, and the sound of gongs and drums is very lively. On the night of the 15th, in the city
The soldiers who performed dragon and lion dances in the city went to welcome the firecrackers and fireworks with their bare shoulders. In the military barracks in the city, the Customs Commissioner's residence, and some large shops on the river streets, all of them cut old moso bamboo tubes or hollowed out the roots of palm trees, mixed sulfur charcoal steel sand with saltpeter, and beat them from one thousand to eight hundred times to prepare the fireworks. The brave and fun-loving sergeant, naked to the waist, came playing with lanterns and drums. Small firecrackers hung like rain from the air, hanging from the tip of the long pole, onto the shoulders and backs of the lantern players. The gongs and drums made rapid beats. Everyone was very excited about this. After the firecrackers were set off for a while, a large tube light tied to a bench lit a fuse at one end of the open space. First, there was a hissing white light, and then slowly the white light roared, making an astonishing sound like thunder and a tiger. The white light rushed upwards, reaching a height of twenty feet, and when it fell, it scattered flowers and rain all over the sky. The soldiers playing with the lanterns circled around in the sparks, as if they didn't care. Cuicui and his grandfather had also seen such liveliness and left a lively impression, but for some unknown reason, this impression was not as sweet and beautiful as what happened during the Dragon Boat Festival.

In order not to forget that incident, Cuicui and her grandfather went to the river street near the city to watch the boats for a long time on the Dragon Boat Festival last year. When everything was going well, it suddenly started raining, and no one's clothes were soaked by the rain. In order to take shelter from the rain, the grandfather and grandson and the yellow dog walked up to the Shunshun stilted building and huddled in a corner. Someone was passing by carrying a stool. Cuicui recognized that person as the person who sent her home with a torch last year, so she told her grandfather:

"Grandpa, that man sent me home last year. When he walked with a torch, he really looked like a minion!"

Grandfather remained silent at that time. When the man turned around and walked past again, he grabbed the man and said with a smile:

"Hey, hey, you're such a person! I can't even let you come to my house for a drink. I'm afraid the wine will be poisonous and poison you, the right man, to death!"

When the man saw that he was guarding the ferry and saw Cuicui, he smiled. "Cui Cui, you've grown so big! The second elder said that big fish would eat you if you were by the river. The fish in our river here can't swallow you now."

Cuicui didn't say a word, just pursed her lips and smiled.

This time, although I heard the name "Second Elder" from the mouth of this minion for many years, I have never seen this person. From the conversation between her grandfather and Na Nian, Cuicui understood that the two elders spent the Dragon Boat Festival at Qinglangtan, 600 miles downstream. But this time I didn't see the two elders, but I got to know the "eldest elder" and met the famous Shun Shun. After Da Lao caught the duck in the river and brought it home, Shunshun asked Da Lao to give the duck to Cuicui because the old guy guarding the ferry praised the fat duck twice. Knowing that the life of the grandfather and grandson was very tight, he could not make rice dumplings during the festival, so he gave many pointed rice dumplings as gifts.

When the celebrity on the water was talking to her grandfather, Cuicui pretended to look at the scenery in the river, but her ears heard every word clearly. The man told his grandfather that Cuicui was very beautiful, asked how old Cuicui was, and asked if she had any family. Grandfather happily praised Cuicui a lot, and seemed not to allow others to care about Cuicui's marriage, so he kept silent about it when it came to it.

When returning home, my grandfather hugged the white duck and other things, and Cuicui lit a torch to lead the way. The two walked along the city wall, with the city on one side and the water on the other. Grandfather said: "Shunshun is a really good man, very generous. The elder is also very kind. This family is all good!" Cuicui said: "The whole family is good, do you know their family?" Grandfather did not understand the meaning of this sentence, because he was too happy today, so he smiled and said: "Cui Cui, if the elder wants you to be his wife and hires someone to be a matchmaker, will you agree?" Cuicui said: "Grandpa, you are crazy! If you say anything else, I will be angry with you!"

Although my grandfather stopped talking, it was obvious that these ridiculous and bad thoughts were still running through his mind. Cuicui was annoyed, swaying the torch to both sides of the road, and walked forward sadly.

"Cui Cui, don't make trouble. If I fall into the river, the duck will escape!"

"No one cares about that duck!"

Grandfather understood why Cuicui was unhappy, so he sang the song of the oar-wager urging the oar to go to the beach. Although his voice was hoarse, his words were steady and unambiguous. Cuicui walked forward while listening, and suddenly stopped and asked:

"Grandpa, is your boat going down to Qinglang Beach?"

The grandfather didn't say anything, but continued to sing. Both of them remembered that the boat of the two elders of the Shunshun family was celebrating the festival in Qinglangtan, but neither of them understood where the other person's memory ended. The grandfather and grandson walked back home in silence. When they arrived at the ferry, the boat watcher was mooring the boat on the shore and waiting for them. Several people crossed the stream to their home and peeled rice dumplings to eat. When they arrived, the man was going to the city. Cuicui immediately lit a torch for the man so that he could light the way. When they crossed the stream and went up the hill, Cuicui and her grandfather watched from the boat. Cuicui said:

"Grandpa, look at me going up the mountain!"

Grandfather held his hand on the horizontal cable and looked at the mist on the stream. He seemed to see something and let out a sigh of relief. When my grandfather quietly pulled the boat past his house on the other side, he asked Cuicui to go ashore first, but he stayed by the boat. Because it was the festival, he knew that there would be country people coming to the city to see the dragon boats, and they would have to rush home in the dark. six

During the day, the old boatman had an argument with a transit man selling leather paper on the ferry. One could not accept the money given, but the other had to give the money to the old man. It seemed that the old boatman was a little oppressed because of the way the ferryman presented the money. The ferryman seemed angry and forced the man to take the money back, so that the man had to hold the money in his hand. But when the boat came to shore, the man jumped onto the pier, threw a hand of copper coins into the cabin, and hurried away with a smile. The old boatman had to hold the boat to let others ashore. He couldn't chase the person, so he called the girl on the hilltop:

"Cui Cui, Cuicui, help me hold the young man selling vellum, don't let him leave!"

Cuicui didn't know what happened, so she went with the yellow dog to stop the first person coming down the mountain. The man smiled and said:

"Don't stop me!..."

Just as he was talking, the second businessman came and told Cuicui what was going on. Cuicui understood, and even held on to the paper seller's clothes, saying, "Don't leave! Don't leave!" In order to show that he agreed with his owner, the yellow dog barked beside Cuicui. The other businessmen all laughed and could not walk for a while. Grandfather rushed over out of breath, forced the money into the man's hand, put a bunch of cigarettes on the merchant's load, rubbed his hands and said with a smile: "Let's go! You go on the road!" Then those people all left with a smile.

Cuicui said: "Grandpa, I thought that man stole your things and fought with you!"

Grandfather said:

"He gave me a lot of money. I don't want the money! I sue him for not asking for the money, and he still quarrels with me, which is unreasonable!"

Cuicui said: "Have you returned everything to him?"

Grandfather pursed his lips and shook his head, pretending to be a cunning and proud smile, took out the single copper coin tied in his belt and gave it to Cuicui. Let’s say:

"If he gets our handful of tobacco leaves, he can eat them all the way to Zhenyu City!"

The drums sounded loudly in the distance again, and the yellow dog opened his ears to listen. Cuicui asked her grandfather if he heard anything. When my grandfather paid attention and knew what the sound was, he said:

"Cui Cui, the Dragon Boat Festival is here again. Do you remember that fat duck that Tianbao Elder gave you last year? In the morning, I went up to Sichuan East with a group of people, and asked you during the transition. You must have forgotten the rain that fell. If we go this time, we have to light a torch to go home; do you remember that the two of us used torches to light the way home?"

Cuicui is still thinking about everything that happened during the Dragon Boat Festival two years ago. But when her grandfather asked, Cuicui looked slightly annoyed, shook her head, and deliberately said: "I can't remember, I can't remember." In fact, what she meant was "Why can't I remember?!"

Grandfather understood what he meant and said, "It was even more interesting the year before last. You were waiting for me by the river alone. I almost didn't know when I came back. I thought the big fish would eat you!"

Cuicui laughed when she mentioned old things.

"Grandpa, do you still think the big fish will eat me? Someone else complained about me, so I sued you! You just wanted to let that grandpa in the city eat the gourd filled with wine that day! You have such a memory!"

"I am old and my memory is very bad. Cuicui, now that you have grown up, you will definitely dare to go to the city to watch the boats alone and you will not be afraid of the fish eating you."

"When you grow up, you should guard the ship."

"Only when people are old can they guard the ship."

"People should take a rest when they get old!"

"Your grandfather can still fight tigers, and people are not old!" Grandfather said, then he bent his arms, trying to make the muscles appear strong and young in the muscles, and said: "Cui Cui, if you don't believe it, just bite."

Cuicui stared at her grandfather, who had a slightly hunched back and white hair, but said nothing. There was a sound of suona playing in the distance. She knew what it was and knew the direction of the suona. She asked her grandfather to get off the boat with her and pull the boat past the shore near her home. In order to see the wedding sedan as soon as possible, Cuicui climbed to the tower behind the house and looked out. Not long after, the group of people came, including two suona players, four strong country men, an empty sedan chair, a young man who looked like the son of the regiment president in new clothes, and two sheep, a child leading the sheep, a jar of wine, a box of glutinous rice cakes, and a person carrying gifts. After a group of people got on the ferry, Cuicui and her grandfather also got on the ferry. Her grandfather pulled the boat, but Cuicui stood beside the sedan to admire everyone's faces and the tassels on the sedan. After reaching the shore, the man who looked like the son of the regiment leader took out a small red paper envelope from the belly of the buckle flower bag and handed it to the old boatman. This is a rule, and my grandfather can no longer say no to it. But after getting the money, my grandfather spoke. He asked the man where the bride was from. He understood, and then asked what her last name was. He understood, and then asked how old she was. They all figured it out together. As soon as the suona player came ashore, he started blowing the suona again, and the group walked over the mountain. Grandfather and Cuicui stayed on the boat, their emotions seemed to be chasing the sound of the suona, and they walked a long way back to themselves.

Grandfather weighed the red paper envelope and said, "Cui Cui, the new bride in the Song family is only fifteen years old."

Cuicui understood the meaning of her grandfather's words, ignored it, and quietly pulled the boat up.

When they got home, Cuicui ran home to get a double-barreled suona made of small bamboo, and asked her grandfather to sit on the bow of the boat and play the song "Mother Sends Daughter" to her. However, she and the yellow dog lay in the shade on the big rock in front of the door and watched the clouds in the sky. The day was getting longer, and at some point, my grandfather fell asleep, and so did Cuicui and the yellow dog.

(Compiled and shared by netizens at www.jingdianbook.com)

