Monday Morning என்றும். December 19, 1974 , Birdama Fog
Morning என்றும். Same as a Judge me. Late. has been I woke up. என்றும். From the morning
Right At ten two Time Bole International Airplane Accommodation
Presence I had to என்றும். What's left for me? Time Twenty minute Only என்றும். Hand Bag
Only Hang up. I got up. என்றும். Fortunately Bag In the past day No
Roplan Accommodation I took it. I handed it over. has been என்றும். Morning sleep Which
Give me Wave Live Is it Roman ? like me She is not. என்றும்.
Morning Bird she is என்றும்.
" a bit thing Your mouth " If you do, " she said to me . Roman என்றும்.
" Oh, yeah. " Thank you for creating me ! Do you know ? Rather " Let's go ," I said .
Hand My watch. I'm watching. என்றும். Morning Grain It doesn't bother me. என்றும்.
" You died. " " I'm sleepy !" she said . Thin ; Beautiful Her lips
Lost By leaving Achaha So. When you do Herself You
Name I think so. all the time என்றும். once in a while When she says Her breast went out
Do it. It's funny. Good. She is herself. You love She looks like me.
And what if என்றும். beautiful she is So. She snored. Like She appeared to me. என்றும்.
Stacorf Happy She says. She snorted. Reason I didn't lose it. என்றும்.
For three month As much as She was separated. to the Northern Ethiopian Class :
to the Asmara Where I go day To say goodbye Love opportunity
I didn't give it to her. என்றும். Morning Sometimes He left me. What separated me? Lazy
i am என்றும். Bad opportunity ; My journey In a hurry Love If I start
What Did he have to ? Her cheek. Sam I did. என்றும். Smile She said என்றும். Her teeth
Fresh Opened For a child Irrigation Corn Lie feel like என்றும்.

« Gesahn You haven't washed. என்றும். What If they do to you You'll be fine.
She told me . . 2

" you You is it I smell. என்றும். Vanilla Five » I told her என்றும்.
My

so true She Her has been My friend Smelly என்றும். From
Dame Night Since Kalga Inside We didn't leave. என்றும். Saturday Sunday
Bed On Hang out Old Our habit is it என்றும்.

" For three month Galahan Don't wash. I bought it. என்றும். Today
Gabriel I will catch you. என்றும். But What Does You're welcome. Without sleeping other
Woman Smell You will take it. என்றும். Hey you Wherever you go You are used to it. Creature
Are you " She said . என்றும்.

The house Key on the whole For Roman I gave it to her. Later Let's get together.
We left. என்றும். We are good. ; My car as a Habit Push me. She doesn't. என்றும்.
however as a my heart To fly I can't. என்றும். The road All Count
Number Without person Stuck என்றும். Most of them Women Were என்றும்.
Even if Above person Installed Taxis They are wandering. என்றும். Amal As
Where person Taxi With Number Where they found Place Brake contain என்றும்.
too much Above person Installed Home Cars too in abundance Road
On See you later. has been என்றும். all of them The traveler to the Gabriel Church
That has been என்றும். December Gabriel என்றும். Past Past Conflict and Danger
will arrive என்றும். The road Closes என்றும். Time Also Running : Let's go.
fate ; * me either Candy two Time Conflict Danger I will be affected.
has been என்றும். I will not curse. Curse and I will not curse. Insult I didn't read.
Rain * from the sky below என்றும். person In a hurry why? Fault As I see it
Taw I don't understand. என்றும்.
" Oh, yeah. " By your creation Slow "Say, " she said. Roman Her body Trembling with fear என்றும்.
. Wojchem For her soul so true Sensitive she is : Roman Hleteworki என்றும்.
Surprisingly என்றும். Let's go. She me either I am mistaken. என்றும். See you later. All
It's wrong. என்றும். From the foot her fingernail as long as Head Her hair In their eyes
as a Onion Latin It makes her என்றும். If you see her Number என்றும். It's getting dark.
Tafelfuedle As Women " They don't like me, " she says . # She too Seto
We Like a sword is it What are you afraid of? : What? They taste me. By
For you என்றும். Without Woman Enemy don't have She says என்றும். Soil The one who touches Body
She has You don't look like it. என்றும். God His hand Washed Without None Art
Bun Where it ended What a shame ! Don't be silly ! Bye! Full look out
Quat ; as a New person என்றும். Her breasts black Her sweater. Take it out.
They are holding என்றும்.
« The plane Standing Me Waiting for me " Do you think so ?" I asked her.
Speed I added. என்றும்.
« Your corpse To avoid Only : Brake ......»
« My grave On Revenge Crying Like you She is gone. Fiancé
If I have Death Why me ? My bones " It's going to bloom, " I said. " Christmas " Contract
You If you go right now What had to She said என்றும்.
« Eritrea Resurrection how Did we do it ?
« Omna Christmas Where As we passed by Remember " Will you tell me ?" she asked. என்றும்.
« Bed Inside Maybe .
Drunk என்றும். Head Hotel It was ... and so true Are you drunk? has been " .
« Your beauty it will be It made me drunk ....»
« H Tech She said " To all " thing Hurry up pass away Auntie !
Nega Care Campaign என்றும். Growth In partnership Say Campaign என்றும். For war
Campaign என்றும். Economic Construction Campaign என்றும். Infidelity To destroy
Campaign என்றும். Regulatory Campaign என்றும். right now Also Eritrea
Problem To solve Campaign என்றும். Campaign Culture We created. என்றும். Without
Campaign We lived. Where we die day When Come " Will it be? " she said . .
She is shaking. என்றும். When she says Sometimes Speaker She is என்றும்.
- « Our journey Long ; Our hope far away ; Our problem a lot ;

What Let it be done. You said " Is that it ?" I said . Hers Speech To pretend -

I am trying. என்றும்.

« H Auntie ! You You are joking » in a dead man's voice Her speech She continued:
" Yes Aunt By you at home Ethiopian Problem All By proclamation In the
patience let's see Summer Gum In the morning I'm losing my mind. Do you think so ? Amazing !
And so As No என்றும். Basic Our problem Without a trace Salvation
that We entered. cool has been . . Paul Inactivity other Translation don't have.
Proclaim ; Reinforcement Proclaim Gagata ; Campaign Say noise ,
What Fayada work out You say Is it ? Chaos ; To walk ; It's gone.
Ramso pass away Aunt என்றும். "My name is " she said. என்றும்.

« Running On Without Country she is என்றும். Even if it's bad Even though Action ;
The new Generation Action Generation is it என்றும். Time It makes us happy. என்றும்.
Time We don't have any. என்றும். Hurry Generation We are என்றும். Crazy Generation என்றும். Crazy people
We are Truth = The old man Generation Curly New Generation Firstborn
Child One dead end :; The other's First to be Madness
is it என்றும். " It runs, " I said. என்றும்.

« Where To reach ? › Silence She said என்றும்.

The thing is I don't like it. என்றும். Without Love Thirsty thing No என்றும்.
Dawn Star They seem to Her eyes Tears They have provided என்றும்.

Her car Speed Hourly to the hundred Kilo Meter Dry
Seoul என்றும். From the revolution Square Later to the Bole What it takes Road
Safe has been 1 aa

" Our courage " "Romiye " I said. on the right My hand Her shoulder
hit Work I did. " Three " month From victory Later When I return We are getting married.
Guru My dear so that so that When is it My duty You are saying To
Welcome me. Only என்றும். Salary one thing Don't forget. என்றும். Sunday Sunday
For the veterans Friend For my sake Hailemariam You are saying song To guide you
I'm tired. ; "Okay ?" I said. : Just kidding. என்றும்.
Dry My joke She didn't laugh. என்றும். It is annoying. was Tears
Col Say Down : Morning Dew Apparently Morning Sun suitable
Let's say Her cheeks Interrupting என்றும். Full Moon From what it seems
Cow Her face On Kinbal has Long black Her hair to the On
hit Do it. " This is Campaign By me On is it came from என்றும். Otherwise
If only ..." she said. Handkerchief From her bag Take it out. Her tears She swept. என்றும்.
Her bag When opened Paradise Door As opened As much as cool The aroma
Come and Nose Competition Does என்றும்.
January Half On Let's get married. Planned has been என்றும். The event From
Mern We have been waiting. என்றும். Both of us Our wedding Day With great pleasure
Desire Longing has been What we are waiting for என்றும். If we are engaged Solid two
Year It has happened. Roman Hleteworkin As long as I can find it Until I am getting married.
that Thought I didn't have it. என்றும். wedding What they say taste In my mind Come and
Never has been என்றும். Suddenly We met. wedding What they say Infectious
Disease He caught me. என்றும். From here in the past For many Time Let's get to know each other. has been என்றும். Let's
God The good my friend sister She was என்றும். Back Her brother Mojo On
By car Danger He died. என்றும். Car When driving Crazy has been என்றும். Speed
Loves என்றும். The car Voice From afar When heard The village People That
Crazy came Your children Hold on ! They say. has been என்றும். Dust It will be fine. என்றும்.
Chickens I am laughing. In every direction They shine. என்றும். Yadis Flower Sei
Cento Drivers Terror Who will leave? Driver If there is He Only
Be careful. என்றும். Roman From him Car On Out You don't know. என்றும். Speed
Life is it that Idiom Had என்றும். Who loves thing He killed him.
Marriage Disease I'm sick. evening ; She; Her brother and one Her friend
Head Hotel Were என்றும். Head Band Play has been என்றும். Same as a
Habit Alone We are tired. has been I came. என்றும். Night Alone
When I turn around Adventurism i feel என்றும். Evening as a Gambling Game It will be
I am a bee. என்றும். some evening It is good. என்றும். person Alone Out From
Njo Woman With When returning ; From here More Profit Oh my ! Some
- Yes Also What you didn't expect Loss As a result Empty Hand Where? at home
He answers. என்றும். Life is it : * meet :; broke up என்றும். Her brother
He invited me. என்றும். Her friend Happy I don't have it. என்றும். Hot He told me. என்றும். Dance Asna
4 years என்றும். Close Tell me. என்றும். Her breasts They pushed me away. என்றும். Her perfume I was attracted. என்றும். dead
The Shiqaw With Created She looks like ; When you are angry என்றும். first
Iza Her beauty I was captivated. என்றும். in the past Her beauty i can't see you has been என்றும்.
why? If Egg in the past See you Run away. has been என்றும். Always
Time From her hand The indestructible Book Holy Not Probably
When I saw her Number From afar What drives me away? என்றும். Satan Hona is not என்றும்.
Religion I don't care. என்றும். My Religion Life is it என்றும். Book
Holy Where I read Reason If there is In his literature is it . .
Awesome Literature is it என்றும். Especially ; Preaching Song Song
to read Happy I say. என்றும். To day " Love " in practice But In the spring
Lot no way என்றும். The nearest Leave me alone. From afar On What Are you hung ?
Paradise Here Our Earth On Let's create it. we can Bakafana
In the morning என்றும். Your time in vain " Don't eat it ," I told her . since She leaned against him.
I do not know She too. Don't touch me. Horn without Satan Ad
scold has been You see me. என்றும்.

As I heard Dream Without Pente What happened? white Terror
In red Terror When it hits Season has been என்றும். Advent Come ! Repent !
Come in ! Saying Women and Especially Young people Catching one
person Her neighbor Live has been என்றும். The tongue It tastes good. ; The words Question
They will break. என்றும். And his appearance if For evil It is not given. என்றும். wealth on foot
Set Eat the house Married person is it. What 's wrong ? From the person
With to the foundation Christ ; to the Zoo Life ; Raguel
Go. Started என்றும். The paralytic When it rises : The dumb one Speaking ; Blind The eye
When lit : The patient When healing ... prayer What is working? Miracle
Look. என்றும். Believer She became என்றும். In the world hope She cut. என்றும். Her heart prayer
Only it becomes : And herself Book Holy என்றும். brand new Believer From the Pope
More Carefree Advocate it will be * She said so In turn
Separated Sbakky She became : : From the book Holy other Rumor She didn't have it.
What she found person All « God's Word " Let's listen " without saying Edition
For the rest என்றும்.
Believer Being If confirmed Later The man at home Being found
Others Brothers and Sisters Close To introduce you. It was done.
Right there Always Evening came என்றும். From a few Evenings Later
Book Holy Even Political Conversation It's getting hot. : prayer Even
rock me Waiting Softly drink Instead Beer and Whiskey Looking
It's late. Go. Started என்றும். over there at home Every night Gathering Sister
Leave Brothers What is it? Identity Slow Slowly Entering it He went. என்றும்.
all of them If not Most of them By religion Cover Against Revolution position
Those who advance Political People Being Enter it. என்றும். hope Cut
lake In every prayer the house We are saved. saying Tears Spraying Those who testify
Somehow People Impersonators that they are By contract Realizing -
Time has been # Oh my . Mary Marine While over there at home When she entered
Leg Back She left ...
The music Very so true It's hot. என்றும். Close I told her. In life
Water rock me Strategy You are welcome. She looks like என்றும்.
« Book The Holy One Where " Did you throw it away ?" I asked her. என்றும்.
« My breast Root is it " .
« From man Heart More Book Holy No என்றும். And Also
From life better than What Religion " Is there ?" she said. My name is Accept
She did it. ;
" how Wake up and say " Jal " She teased me. என்றும்.
« Today I was reprimanded. no more ..."
Mission how !"
« The web Your face On I saw it. W
Taree Christmas is it beautiful Being Have you been told ?
" as a The truth if so Yes really Blind i have been Base
Lent I said it. The music To end Bill ; " other Place let go "
Saying Thought I approached her. என்றும்.
« Command is it Or Question
Question It's ...
" no more "
‹ - « And supplication is it If you want =
Her brother and His friend They are there. We left. Let's get together. We are lost. என்றும். Yadis
Flower evening Swallow என்றும். This What happened? From Hussite Year in the past has been.
How many? day Later If I can't. That The inevitable Title
No, no. get up என்றும். In Care Of wedding To talk We started. என்றும். Women When they say Sometimes
One Male Their own Item Without doing He will not leave. என்றும். Unmarried
In love to live why? Impossible I don't understand. என்றும். Sometimes ;
For many Ordinary Dead People wedding as a Death Inevitable Debt Havana
all right I think My heart I sold it. " And alone ." Turn Prohibition I think Leave.
Cut என்றும். habit Sometimes Bad thing Because it is How can I do without " Romi " ?
Evening I 'm addicted ! It happened to me. என்றும். like me if If only so far
We got married. has been என்றும். But how This is called ! Let's complete it. ; That
Let's do it. When you say Here it is. About the cottage When I think ( I thought ) What I don't know )
two Year I'm done. Dinena Her Only Somewhere a bit Paradise
She wishes. a bit Paradise Also By the government worker Salary
Band The day after tomorrow You are born As She was not found. என்றும். From two Year
Struggle Later our What we wish for a bit Paradise Let's create Almost
Ton has been. Red Star Campaign came என்றும். Our relationship Three month
Age She added. என்றும். Or Who Does he know ? Then Above to be
Can என்றும். all of them thing As you thought It will not work. என்றும். Life as a
Here she is .....
Our car I took it. Hungary Introduction On Okay, I stopped. என்றும். The soldier ;
Civil It is moving. என்றும். Military Gear From afar It sounds என்றும். five
minute As much as I am late. என்றும்.
« Three month Manalat You said Is it tomorrow ? she is என்றும். Rather Happy Let's
Dillen With a smile Send me. ; Okay ? » Bye Her chin Hold Up
sunny I did it. என்றும். my heart Badly Hanging என்றும்.
necessarily Her lips Alaka Smile She said என்றும். Her smile Not satisfied
I am not. என்றும். By force To make you laugh Saying Her armpit Inside I entered. Kora
I swear என்றும். To murmur You don't like it. You're a jerk. What they have She does.
My love Thank you ! She laughed. என்றும். Sakuwa as a Thirsty rock me
Happy says என்றும். person So that we don't see Explain * Explain I think Theft
As much as Her lips If I kiss you Later The car Key She gave it to her.
I'm going down. Because ; My hand Hold on. Do it. :
« Thank you ; my heart Scared I "Let me go, " she said .
. Zemach Fiancé Determined to be She has என்றும். Our courage என்றும்.
Fang Bye .......
" Oh, yeah." Like him I mean is not ..... »
" So?" What is it?
" Hey you Where have you arrived? All Your home is it என்றும். You will get used to it. என்றும்.
My love For another Don't give it to me. I'm scared. Asmara Soups Cain
Previous Claws they are are there ......
" You?" You are annoying. If found But By auction I didn't kill.
Sound. i don't think so. concern Don't bother. Chow என்றும். By the way
On This dead Car Garage Let me in. என்றும். As soon as I arrived
I will call you. E Bayat Her tears To not see Death I ran.
Me too My stomach Bar Bar He told me. has been என்றும். For those who love People
For short And time let it be broke up Sometimes Pain is it என்றும். in case
News Location Distance Love Thieves Without being Will they stay ? என்றும்.
Inspection existence Forgetting As I ran i went to the The plane
I want to enter. Because The level On I got caught. என்றும். The inspection Time It didn't take long. என்றும்.
To Soldier Dash :; Dabus : Chub : Chub : As Leave me alone. என்றும்.
Chief The chair to the The plane By coming On Were என்றும். Traveler
All Place The place Earlier Say He has it. என்றும். Protocol The chief
Stare at me. என்றும். person All Earlier Say The place If not It's hot.
Wake up. He complains. He curses. He scolds. என்றும். In the possession
List Base Ten Ten It will be called என்றும். I Only i have been It is.
Back What's left? என்றும். Christmas When he sees me With great pleasure Relief Breathe and breathe :;
« What is it Comrade "My grace, " he said. என்றும்.
" over here " I was there, " I said. Falsely Smile I think என்றும்.
. You are welcome. Advertisement Ministry People What If they do
Wow! Is it better ? When? Will it be Wherever you want. Place In time For
Driss Can you ? Stomach Cramp Heart "Kar ..."
« Our quota Because it is abundant " That's it ." ...
" spin off Sum Holding you It is . என்றும். Jimma Barna July 19
Coffee at home For you When we say If you If we don't enter " It didn't happen to us ," he said .
Fang Say என்றும்.
What we need person All one On If found Fainting stop
For It starts என்றும். The lie He is angry. But Bad Nature No
What? என்றும். When laughing And the teeth ; No, no. ; Borchum To On Yes
Word. Look Good ought to ; Laugh : The joke : cool Hurry up.
Rowan The clarity I will stop it. என்றும். Major is it என்றும். Protocol Officer
if so since By the soldier Meliodas Seen Jehovah Taste என்றும். No Dress
no one To No !

Yadisaba Civil and Countryman Official None Remaining
It doesn't seem like it. என்றும். The plane Cuff as long as Killed Beard Say In person
It is full. With Poems Doracian ; Painters ; Music and
Platform People . Voices ; Actor ; History Writers :
Journalists, Filmmakers Photographers ... invisible professional
sort of No என்றும். When In this Only ; Organization People ; Farm
professionals ; Water Engineers ; Industrial Business Lee
Heads : etc ... Babarum They are gone. என்றும். This one Airplane Sky
On one thing "She is Ro " If I I am not there. i say In my heart ";
Comfortably Not yet Shining : By drinking In Sijjar A little bit :
sleep By losing Abused ; Mulch : Chegogotham ; Rhyme ;
Beard ; however as a Easter Knife Sharp Sharp Face
Also as a Monkey I am tired. Smart, I don't know. Or I don't see it.
right person The plane Inside Without I don't think so. என்றும். All of us
Soon let it be From afar Let's meet. என்றும். thereby it becomes there
Unknown person No என்றும். All of us One Generation People
We are ; Young Hurry ; Perhaps Authority Seeker என்றும். And All
We are For the revolutionary mother Country :Lewditu Ethiopia Existence ;
silver ; Unity : Growth ; Prosperity and Hello Jealous !
Strange Youth Officials and Leaders round up என்றும். in case Yagar
Their opportunity In their hands The one who has been caught So Without Youth Leaders
Officials round up Wherever Seen Unknown it will be என்றும். Revolution
is it என்றும். Youth Boil energy என்றும். Youth Desire ; Far away Close
Dream This is Earth ! Come on ! Country ! Ethiopia ! Father! Country
Wild Shield ! Mother! Country Shema ! Yabat Hero Nut Revolutionary Young
Generation My name is She was buried. Come on !
« Yes I think I will bring it. Ho I think With victory
In the past My father is it The enemy Killing ......
My place Byne I want I started ...
« Mr. I have a TV ! Ondu Car person என்றும்.
" Come on ! Come on !" I said. The protocol Officer என்றும்.
In a hurry I followed him. என்றும். The chairman Pick up Time
As it approaches To pinch It is abundant. என்றும். Tekalbo person It will not work. என்றும். to the
first Title Taken From the Derg Permanent Committee From ISAAC Work
Executor Committee Members and From the ministers Together Put me down. என்றும்.
« Comrade ; Protocol Wrong "If it is " ; I said. என்றும்.
« Rest Sit down. " Hey ," I said. என்றும். some Those who love People
You While Call Loves என்றும்.
" My truth." New ...
« Your place is it என்றும்.
Comrade Pleasure Calm Protocol Position Misleading person
is not. In Care Of Protocol Position so true Washed He is worried.
Every person Political From the weight Weight Knowing Because
« And Authority Descend They call him "a genius " . some Derg
Members என்றும். The thing is Joke is not என்றும். From the Derg Members Since a lot
Officials Kermo Political Their weight Those who weigh
By him Eye is it என்றும். From the country High Officials With Side To the side
To sit Or shoulder For the shoulder To push Heart It is annoying. me either
a bit From the weight Like I felt it. என்றும்.
Like us Garden Inside has Tuba * Tuba Official All
Turn While : Thank you. So what ? When I say Hot Tell me. Started என்றும். Sometimes
Ethiopian Television I am not familiar with it. person No என்றும். But Question
their The height Not ; over here What Will you do it ?
sort of Question has been என்றும். Their faces On The question It reads ... Shewa
Who [remains ] or Ethiopian Main City Asmara Moved
Maybe !... Shewa On Damon Said song With sadness My heart
From afar Landafta I felt it. என்றும். But ; first Garden Inside From above
Sleep The country Officials With To be placed Done
like me such as Others famous professionals Were என்றும். Colonel With the rod
Heard From the left Side He is sitting. என்றும். Thick Leaked face Same
The usual Perfect Calmness It will be seen. என்றும். In three Kingdom
Tat Intelligence Technique namely By the CIA ,with Mossad By the KGB
Operation Strategies Especially ; Saturday Against Government Organization
We By breaking known Public Security person Ever I don't think so.
Habit : When you see it என்றும். all right Merchant It is It seems என்றும். Smile In front of him
It doesn't matter. என்றும். With a smile Hello says என்றும். With a smile He/She/It speaks. என்றும்.
With a smile It will be delivered. என்றும். a lot He doesn't speak. ; Mr. Smile என்றும்.
Separatist Organizations Technical Tactical as a His hand Palm
knows It is called என்றும். For the smile The response I replied ... Cover it.
Right Through Seated Wax Book of Daniel It is called என்றும். face
a bit she is என்றும். The bald one His mother Cracked to the Huwala Because it goes
The head For two Cracked a bit Pumpkin skull She looks like என்றும்.
His body Thin As Borchu Only as a Kalchad Betegui Gooch
Say appears என்றும். Come on. Dress ! Look! The dress To compensate
Trying feel like என்றும். So known Economic Genius is it என்றும்.
In the capitalist it becomes By socialist Economic Principles and Philosophy
It has been done. என்றும். In Hararge period Country From him With Where we haven't reached yet Oh
Rajana district No என்றும். Somali Invaders In Hararge What they delivered
Disaster To study and Report to present Established Special Nation
Royal Committee Leader As When working Where it was Time is it Close Built
It's time. as a The habit one thing Forgotten feel like; Surprise
He said it. என்றும். all the time It is scary. என்றும். When he says Come and necessarily He speaks. என்றும்.
Without saying Also Even if they talk Answer It is not given. என்றும். Closes என்றும்.
And himself it becomes The world and God He snorts. என்றும். And Also all the time
As if hungry is it என்றும். The stomach It is part of ; Or Silence Say The disease
He listens. என்றும். In the world On Without None Disease All The luggage Wrapped up
By him On Settlement Living is it It seems என்றும். Health Give it to you !
i say In my stomach என்றும். The stomach Itching It has begun. என்றும்.
in front In front of me The ' Ethiopian' Suslov "* was என்றும்.
known Ideologist is it என்றும். Hero His name Shitla
Explanation is it என்றும். From the material Seed is it என்றும். Shitla Medium Height
has Thin ; blush Without Look Good is it என்றும். Sharp face
let's see Blade It cuts. என்றும். And the smile if Sharp is it என்றும்.
And the thing is That one As much as as a Blade It cuts. என்றும். Who uses them?
Words Solid and Sharp they are என்றும். If has Thin Shame And the hair
Sharp feel like என்றும். From the situation Proud But If you are close Humility
Gentle . And the game For that has is it என்றும். But The character Secret
Royal is it.
Behind me Colonel The story Child Sit down. Say It is being used. என்றும்.
Whiskey Deep Battle Contract are ; In his eyes Where to go
It seems என்றும். so true Thin because due to In Wollo Hunger Time
From death Survived Shelter Inside In recovery On Without person is it Who
Like என்றும். Item If you save On To download Especially Created It seems
His body, his face ; His feet, his hands Tall they are என்றும். For a long time
Time Edited. Unknown Zoma The hair Controlled and Guess
Morning appears என்றும். From the Sahel Desert brand new From Gangster feel like என்றும்.
Jimma together as long as eighth Class Until We learned. என்றும்.
In his childhood War Game knock has been என்றும். The village Children
All Line up When fighting will be used என்றும். By birth Eritrean is it என்றும்.
His father Grazmach Child Happiness By fascist War Time Refuse
Lagera ; Refuse For my people Saying one Thousand eighty Kilo Meter
on foot In Magowaz From Ethiopia Veterans With Mixed Oh, yes.
When Year Full In the wild In the valley When they fight Who lived? When I pray Veteran
they are. Male Child Born If not To say "like a father "... ; He
M known Against Gangster Warrior Hero It has happened. என்றும். Colonel The story
In this came because ; Gangster flock One day Road Very well
Drum His father It disappears. It is called என்றும். From the past If not good Whiskey
other Never என்றும்.
" Gasha" ; Side Place " I will beat you " Voice I heard. Turn
i say என்றும்.
The fruit Be kind. has been ; Radio Journalist என்றும். Sit down. I think as if
Height Equal Let's be nothing else We will not be left behind. என்றும். Short is it என்றும். From whom
Desu Without Short person Like that Without Thick Voice When leaving Tell me.
Sleep என்றும். No, no. : And his face ; And the teeth To On They laugh. என்றும்.
" Here" is it I will be என்றும். We are separated. " Friend ," I said. என்றும்.
« Class Difference Created Yes ! I have. என்றும்.
« From each as a Ability : For everyone as a The work Comrade
« In the Democratic Revolution So Argonaut "No !" he said to me .
In a hurry to the The place Returned என்றும்.
When he goes It's fast. என்றும். Speaking It's fast. என்றும். Even when working Likewise
Very When it is abundant Brave Fast Police Stop is it என்றும். Human Go away
Dad it has ; Opportunity As Especially Women's என்றும்.
Protocol Officer " 8 " Chief Chair ! » Yes The sound
High As என்றும். ;
The plane Inside was Mumble ; Whispering Step
Noise Band Time ; Quiet ; Flat ; Spray he said என்றும். Injection If you fall
even feels has been என்றும்.
" like what You are welcome. Friends ?
Shocking Wanda Male Voice என்றும். as a Lightning task
that sincerely Originating Smile என்றும். Question Suddenly Breaking
Sincere Humility என்றும். The man ! He is beautiful. Military Uniform The existing one என்றும்.
Without haste something Dependent ; By yourself Trustworthy Feelings and Courage
Trainee என்றும். Country leaders Like any other person M person Ordinary Dead
Being Although it is known When you see them ; something Love ; Respect and
Fear By yourself To be believed Feelings and Courage why? In person Heart
As they say all the time I am surprised. என்றும். Life on it Big brother.
Alive as You see me. என்றும். in case Stranger Public Honor and
Pride ; Existence Permission guard ; Security guard Baladanaura so so
it will be என்றும். I do not know என்றும். something As ; Here Reason That be Or
In another Official From the sixth To cut I love you என்றும். This My behavior
Bom Work my friends , * Look Well then Bass authority When he sees
The tail They call me * Sikola * From my background என்றும். God As is
Let them see ! I But My tail I'm sorry. person i am not என்றும். For myself
a lot I don't know. ; The monster I'm not kidding. i know என்றும். Colchis
Where Shall I arrive ? என்றும். My nature As Authority Addiction I don't have to. என்றும்.
Desire If I had In person To I have Love : And authority it becomes
Respect My friend Competence Maturity To be generated Only is it என்றும்.
In Care Of myself And this i know என்றும். Yes , And another What I know thing
he said ; About myself Yes ; By word I am busy. என்றும். Truth is it என்றும். In
Wait If you are not busy ; Life What Translation Does it have life ?
Get busy is it என்றும். From the side Standing Life Process Viewer
to be Not possible என்றும். From life With Or in contrast In life
Water On Swimming என்றும். Drowning Or From the sun below Mensha -
Fuff என்றும். By me estimate other Option Without i don't think so என்றும். Alive
Water to say This one Yes ! But So Without Purpose is not என்றும்.
In my profession What I enjoy Place All My house is it என்றும்.
« Soon Come on ! Hurry up ! " Say it ," I said. The protocol Officer By hand
Inviting me என்றும். Sometimes In a hurry It is urgent. ; Fight It's confusing.
Heart Loses என்றும்.
" Where ?" from my seat. I am getting up. என்றும்.
« Chief The chair they are They want you. என்றும். Soon Son But
I followed him. என்றும். Official Eye All follow back என்றும். That common
Hot Without Sincere Smile என்றும். Unwillingly necessarily Humble who does
Humility என்றும். Their smiles and Their humility Heart They will steal. From the well
Them Inside Here and there Away What do you envy? Their eyes Tick I said
Wow person They don't look. Don't be shy. : Gentle : black Tiger ! What?
How are you? Also Wounded Angry black Tiger ] Very What makes them angry?
thing If there is professionals once in a while What they offer Random Say
Yes Probably என்றும். To some extent if From afar I know them. என்றும். With
Foot Eight Years By country Inside to the East ; West and
south Ethiopia At the expense Country to the East Germany ; Czechoslovak
Vakiya ; Hungary ; Moscow south Yemen I accompanied them. I am gone. என்றும்.
And In these Years Inside The man : From nature Mental Be active
Nut to the Elderly Intelligence ; If hot Speak Fitr Feeling to the Be patient.
Revolutionary Scholarly : From the kitchen Military service to the Far away Asta
Tawai Maker Changing When they go My eye He saw. என்றும். From responsibility
More Teacher Live Is it me ? Egg என்றும். The person I saw you.
Chow Number ; If we wait I wonder. thing If there is ; Our profession Good morning
Babu What we are looking at Most of us Scholars We are People ,; In the past
Eight Revolutionary Years Inside Without Nail Where are you? And three
thing Our lack of growth Or Our lack of learning It is 1 of many . Era
Class Education For a while And time if Every way Every February
Cow : At every office The house and On every farm Place in practice In the process
Class War Available Experience More Mind It matures.
has Who Maybe ? I forgot. என்றும். But Truth is it " .
« Comrade My grace :; By advertisement Minister Through For the campaign
From outside Ordered Film and Photography Lift Cameras and
Raw Movies Arrived. Where ?
« Comrade Chief Chair The raw films They have arrived. The cameras Christmas
They are ...
" Yes , of course." why? Didn't you arrive ? Eight. hundred Shh Door Cost
To be If ordered Twenty day It's over. என்றும். Or The campaign
Character and Urgency well Didn't you see it ? From the bureaucratic Make
Rar Free In some way Road The tools Urgently To you
Come. Important: All Done has been என்றும். What Surprise Confrontation
What ?
« Comrade Chief Pulpit ; Ordered Movie Lift Cameras
Professional Tools Because they are ; as a Any Item Market
On Not available என்றும். If ordered Later is it In every factory Compatible
Dead என்றும். even if The important thing Effort All Being done "Yes ...."
« Comrade My grace Time We don't have any. என்றும். We Time We are burning. Action
People We are " we" We are in a hurry. Embarrassed Honorable Sosha
List Ethiopia Existence To confirm is it என்றும். National and Father
Yotawi Our mission Urgent Historical is it என்றும். Each web
Git well Formation and Register She has என்றும். Today I am a builder.
Raw Work All History of is it என்றும். The cameras to do
Bantal . Cape Town We bought. to use how "Are we done ?"
« On the 7th day By telex On Telegram Pulling us is it Comrade
Chief Chair என்றும். They will arrive ...»
« December 19th By Fitch Ismara catch up They must January
18 days ...
Okay. : Comrade Chief " Chair " I said. : The rest Dates In the morning
My mind I am thinking. என்றும். Twenty day என்றும். God Take me out. i say In my heart " .
Hand I have to the Place I will come back. has been என்றும்.
« Asmara On High Policy Speech and The whole Ethiopia
Down Villagers : Religious Leaders and Special Special Nationalities
Snakes Democratic Participation Where they do it one Historical
Conference Will be done என்றும். The speech and The conference Process Whole Ethio
Piya People In the newspaper ; On the radio On television To follow Let's
Ditch Now The important thing Preparation All To be done Must என்றும்.
« In the north period Our country has Problem Each one
Country Friend Ethiopian Effort Asking Killer is it என்றும். And
Each Ethiopian Citizen Today In this Case On What to take position
What ... is given? Judgment ; tomorrow Or in the future Important Historical
it will be -. . Our main task Now Since What we do
Works they are. And Here Critical Work Inside Propaganda and
Agitation Function High Role it has என்றும். List Guide Back
By description Season Will give you என்றும்.
« And another Work he said என்றும். Asmara To be published Newspapers :
Unity and .- Ethiopia : Their content Reviewed - from what we do red
Star Campaign in terms of Change They are there. என்றும். Their distribution High
Where it says Road look for should என்றும். With money In the city
Power Through nothing else Problem No என்றும். Asmara Radio Program
Yes Urgently Reviewed The campaign Purpose ; Goal Process
To shine To be done Must ...
" other Acute Work " jamming " issue is it என்றும். Gangsters
Radio What is spreading? Random Full Confusion happened
You are welcome. Close Required என்றும். For vacation Or For a picnic
is not to the Asmara We are going. என்றும். Day 1 , : Et do
We must என்றும். all of them Without None His strength and The knowledge Using
For this National and Revolutionary Campaign Goal Hit as a one
person As Communication Option without Obligation is it என்றும்.
one more time In my heart prayer I delivered. என்றும். The scoundrel Gabriel
how That got me out. Will it be Atto over here taste Inside Pointed out
Dolenj's Satan Curse The storm I'm downloading it. to the
My place I am back. என்றும். The hostess Order I didn't expect it. என்றும்.
My seat On What was Drop belt By lifting My friend
Wait. I did. I tied him up. From me Back The one who was called Book of Daniel,;
Economic expert It was. Now Their work They have started.
« We Action People We are In order What they said Word ; My ear Inside
Called. என்றும். One List Case Don't pass them by. என்றும். thing No
Sum என்றும். Name They will not forget. என்றும். Memory Their ability Awesome is it.
once in a while When I think about it From surprise Past I'm surprised. என்றும். I By fish
Their Place If I were that Thought I came. என்றும். Fortunately i am not என்றும்.
Alone Place It is .... there. On என்றும்.
The plane To get up To climb If not started If only ; Short
Work Preparation and Performance Report Hearing and clear Guide
The giving Function Continue It was a priest. So if so Asmara
When we arrive What As we will be I was scared. என்றும். Time They don't have And Time
They don't give. என்றும். Sending Gabriel In the morning other Good news holding If
R ... ........
And In their Assistants Name Even all right You came.
I have .......... - This 709 is special. Flight It is ... where we fly.
Altitude 29 thousand Shoes ....... the flight What will take us? Time Fifty
five Minute ... from your seats. Root Those who Belts
To be armed You are welcome ......
Let's get used to it ! Wait. We did it » The plane From a few
Minutes Later The nose to the north He/She/It was a mistake. என்றும். Special Flight என்றும்.
The mission ; Artha period Hazer red Star Versatile Revolutionary
Campaign என்றும். Historical Flight என்றும். I am tired. என்றும்.
Asmara That day In the palms
Violation Root
king Waghatha
Nay Northern Goodbye ; Asmara என்றும். Red Sea Stay.
Sheb என்றும். Arab ; Kinbal ; Ginger saying Every way Edge Who
Seen Palm trees and Northern Maiden Braids Contrast
Beauty Even the poet If not Feeling They wake up. என்றும். From the palm tree From
Menaonite Beautiful Braid Shadow Under Landafta Rest ; Lie down. By
For you as a Cool If you call Sky On What you are shining Northern Star
In the desert Moon With relief look at How much? Happy Say Is it possible ?
Hello I miss you ! War. In life In the material On What causes
Disaster More What I hate thing In this the world Without i don't think so.
Human Child In the middle What is created Differences In conversation and
Peace be upon you. To be released day When Come Is that it ? day i miss என்றும்.
Why? is it Human Child Peace be upon you. Without war ?
Life herself Short she is என்றும்.
Anyway thing Asmara John Torah scholar Airplane
Accommodation From where I arrived minute Since Time I did not lose. என்றும். I am thirsty.
Faw Time I didn't have it. என்றும். National and Revolutionary Our mission
two Blade has has been . Band Face Battle : In another Through
Universal Economic Construction one On Conduct ; Especially ;
My Mission Also from this a bit Excellent Without has been என்றும். My Function Ethics
Psychological War Conduct and Marufam has been என்றும். I as far as
Drobo Sometimes From the bottom Psychological War More Social media Asche
cart thing Without i don't think so என்றும். The purpose What Goodbye Honest if :
The wish What If it is too much ; Human Mind and Heart Bande To order
Not possible என்றும். Iza takes என்றும். High Struggle Requires என்றும்.
- Human Mind and Heart easily To order If possible If only When
War Live Was it human ? Child future War Victory Shit
Solve over here On to be Must ; In person Mind Inside என்றும். one
Mind என்றும். one Heart என்றும். Eternal Hello என்றும். Where Oh ! War!
Not available the world Location the world என்றும். all of them Place War.
Without Communication Methods All Join us ! For the people ! Child Cooperation and
Hello Guard Stand up ! Random Coming soon thing No ! My own
Thought Back Me too I laughed. என்றும்.

For the following Three Birds For landing If we are prepared ; Out of ten
lead House Government Behind : Revolution street On From the available
From the doctor John at home I arrived. Temporary My bed On My suitcase.
I'm tired. has been right away I left. " Peace " " Zenamba "
Television Program To work என்றும். why? If Egg
Asmara Palms If I saw Number Peace and Love Feeling
It wakes me up. என்றும். The program also Peace be upon you. On To focus Yes
Early has been என்றும். Airplane On has been Think about it. Flash I have என்றும்.

From Zitsarat ( Forto ) , From Hazhaz ( women) Prison at home It is difficult.
Sleep : From Betegiorgis Television Transmitter Standing
In the From the age of forty Asmara Women Asmara City Start
Riya (where they were founded ) ; If you buy The light From new the world Hills and
From the head Alula Courtyard Asmara City On television Movie Lift
We scanned. என்றும். Asmriti : Asmara * in the east In prayer and In the house
George : In the West With regret ; In the north In Akrian In the forties
Asmara : In the south On the day Goodbye Hills Surrounded ; In Serbian
Dow Floor On Cough Say Spilled Sea Stay. You look like :
7,500 feet above sea level Height On You are here. ; well By design
Aura Roads and Steward Mendonça ; In the palm of your hand Trees and Rare
in Flowers : In a sentence Flowers: 0 scent Trees as a Bride
Decorated Beautiful ; a bit City she is என்றும். Asmara என்றும். Mia Belesa என்றும்.
Natay Goodbye என்றும். Asmara Happy She tells me. என்றும். Nice Happy She has என்றும்.
Before I know her. என்றும். Journalist to be Sometimes cool Opportunity ,
is it என்றும். From the place Place It turns. என்றும். Movement Life One Body It will be
Nall * : Journalist if என்றும்.
Ismara Happy She tells me. I said. என்றும். But What disgusts me
Appearance She has என்றும். a bit City Because she is Mouth She does. என்றும். Care
She worries. என்றும். From her wisdom From the opening due to Heart To explode
will arrive என்றும். Hiding place She doesn't have it. என்றும். as a brand new Flower to the one
Village Domain Say Destruction Or Hide Not possible என்றும். Kidnapped
To avoid explosion From Kasmara went out Or to the Mitzvah Get down to say
Required என்றும். red Sea he said என்றும். The sea Wave Got up as a shaft
Standing back When it falls To see Heart It is not. ; No Horizon
Expands என்றும். Sea Life is it என்றும். Ethiopia too Life red
Sea Life Door என்றும். With relief It breathes ....
The sun From the clouds Glossy Inside appear Eat Shy Northern
Shrub Bride Like She is seen. என்றும். The date It's cold. என்றும். Helmet Hamas
Let it blow. has been என்றும். Palm tree The trees Peace be upon you. Song Pregnant
They look like ... like this. While ;
« One mother Children
On purpose Separated
In my opinion Wrong. They were thrown away.
Mediator Lost
Crazy Rescuer Too much ......» :
From the hills We went down. to the The treasurer Beautiful City We entered. என்றும்.
Sunbel : Case :; The smallest The biggest Kidney ; May A thorn Terra
Visivilos May Poverty ; brand new World ( buy) Banda ) ; Debt Arti *
Debt Thursday Zagheza The light ; Buy Father Shawl ; May Wait :;
And so Neighborhood We are not left. என்றும். We are complete. On TV Camera என்றும்.
Asmara Roads and Buildings In Ethiopia Banner
Objectives : In red Fabrics ; Revolutionary Slogans and Post
Roach : With arrows and Special Special Color have Lights Chicken
Wall : They are covered. என்றும். Palms By light They drove. என்றும். City
Leave Indeed She drove. : She lit up. ; She is hot. ; For the great Festival
Prepared She seems ; to the Honey at home You are going. Arrived The
Beauty and the Beast Welcome Beautiful For the Menaonite beautiful ; Ainama Screwdriver என்றும்.
Yadis Flower Artists : Writers : History Writers ; Journalist
Nouns : Engineers and Economic Scholars Combistation
Outgoing red : green ; Yellow Ladas and Land Rovers In the morning
villages Accompanied Peaceful and Military Officials with
as a Weaver Throwing Continuously Here and there Away Shou : Shou
They say In the city Streets என்றும். The resident People At every door . Every coffee
House and In every store at home Door On Standing Surprised ; Silence Say You look.
Tall ; * in case In his heart ... « What? What ?... What? Jehu
Here Riot ? A fight ? D.I.M feel like ; The comment என்றும்.
Gumbishtato Mishwar From Liamuni
Or Mussolini Cabbage * Do From Fatni "
Said In Italy Time Sung song Remember have Who
It seems Somehow Youth and Cords Were என்றும்.
« Hello ; Hello like what You are
From Shewa We came. See you later.
Hello ; Hello ; Eritrea Hello ...»
Song Song,
The devil Pio Knife Regina ;
Stevedo Da Longano ;
Casca Kulilukai In Feed என்றும்.
Asmara Asmara,
Cab Hunt Queen Be better. Image ;
Amadie Karayaki I am tired. Yes
Father Idey Jump thing It falls. என்றும்.
. Asmara The Esmarapan; N
From one Queen It is better. Your appearance
Far away When I see you With her beauty In Care Of Captivated
In my hand Without thing Without me knowing It will fall. is it.
The meaning »
Temovich - R.
You are God. Hey you Creator ;
Human Child how In the desert It's getting old. ;
From our eyes Your eyes More No Or ?
How are you? Me I was surprised. ;
Back You are going. When I think so. என்றும்.
 Morning In the morning என்றும்.
 Night ; In the north Star Shadow Root என்றும்.
 Walking in " Combashtato " They blocked me. ;
Mosque From here Worse What He made me என்றும்.
" right now to the Market " Let's go, " I told them. என்றும். Movie Photographer
The They are tired. " Zhul " beer Only has been Visible என்றும்.
Hey Comrade My grace About today " Enough, " he said. One Among them.
" Christmas What " Arrested ?" I said. என்றும்.
to the Market Let's get together. we went Noyerabhab Massacre From It seems
All Burning What he found Grain We are not. Price It will be sold. என்றும். May
Crofon Hold to the one Old man Close i say என்றும். Braid them.
Their arms Out of the way He has it. என்றும். Puppy : Puppy: 0 months
Group Gold Ornaments Ears Their necks On Gooch Gooch saying Wait.
such as என்றும். Tigre Woman Gold Sometimes By oath They don't fit. என்றும்.
« What is it Those who shop "Mom ?"
" Wow ! You're welcome , " they said. என்றும்.
« The price how is it ?"
" Wow ! Dear !" என்றும். Fire It has happened. W
" Name ?"
" Welcome ..."
" why Grain Lost ”»
« Like என்றும். all of them It will be sold ...»
" Yes , of course." Why ? What? "Come ?"
For discussion Disperse Death People They surrounded us, young man. Old man
Elder என்றும். as a Palm tree Tree Without Braid என்றும். In Kundala as a Dead
Kunon Stretched Knbnb என்றும். some On television Those who know me
Youth Were என்றும். He Is it ? Or is not Saying Dear
Help me. I think so. என்றும். Sometimes On television In the box ? Oh, yes.
Rowena Beautiful Every night What is offered? some Television
People ; Outside alive Short : Fungus ; Bald ; Abandoned ;
If you open it Where are you? Like appear In order Bay They cut. #
: Or He is it Yes !
: Or He/She she is Yes !
-- This TV Measure None Appearance is it It shows என்றும். A %1
And me? What I think I saw them. Is it possible ?
" Good morning, " he said. One Brave என்றும்.
Name Remember Sometimes Fool Because it is Turn i say என்றும். In the fall
Without understanding It's gone. என்றும்.
The old woman at last I presented them. Question Answer Alsa
I am tired. என்றும். Brightly Their eyes Silence saying Look at me. has been என்றும்.
Oh my. When we met Without hesitation Those who say They seem என்றும். All
Nose War ; Massacre ; Hunger and Plague Air Which
Lie Their eyes Advent Seeing . Their ears Bullet Futuna
Death Lament Audible Apparently I saw you. என்றும். The thing is Separatist Woman
Days Trick Not Is it still hot ? : Intense Science Heart
Navy War In progress On that I understand என்றும். I am angry. என்றும்.
Also I feel sorry for you. என்றும். This Gentle People It saddens me. என்றும். To be afraid .
To be shocked ; Fear Cloud Shadow Their faces On It hovers. என்றும்.
In death Shadow Eclipse Absorbed They seem to என்றும். The worst I am upset. என்றும்.
Our camera Eye The shopkeeper On Focused என்றும். Consumer
Merchant They don't argue. என்றும். The merchant in the Price It is sold. என்றும். The consumer
In the so-called Price Buys Oh my. Oppose :raw Seed In its essence * coal;
Firewood Wood ; Oil ; Lamba ; In large numbers It is sold. ; In large numbers kill
Val : In large numbers It will be installed. என்றும். all of them Running : It will be rushed. , Upcoming
Evil day Without further ado I am ahead. Without None The call Poured
I have stored it. Grain Soul and The flesh holding to keep In the past Time
The best Enough ! feel like His eyes Sayaz The money
Cough As By email Like that When shopping என்றும். He will not be judged. என்றும்.
War and Massacre To come to you is it When they say The people What Do it ?
Handful Raw Lost Tom Leave Arranged ; box : Closet ;
Chair Even It's broken. For firewood Used ; That 1969 and
The 1979 War Time Far away Memory is not என்றும். But War If
Can right now Who Die. Who Dead Who To be avoided ! Human thing Tell me.
Mal என்றும். Sometimes I I am dying. that Without என்றும். all the time Mimo
Leave. Another person is it என்றும்.
Vocal The camera Microphone My mouth On Crush The
The patience Purpose We didn't bother him. ; So Because என்றும்.
" Hey you Eritrean period Country People என்றும். For the past Twenty year
Tat Hello Sirab ; When you are thirsty. ; When I miss you You are welcome. என்றும். You too
as a Any People Hello Seeker Are you என்றும். The broad People
Desire and Desire What And time if Hello is it என்றும். Peace be upon you Dog
For you என்றும். But Hello They don't give you Imperialism Hope and
Armored warrior are ; Without Your name Name :; Without Your story History ; Without
Your goal Purpose You are getting tired. ; Hey you In disbelief By not accepting
History Bututo In you Name Traders Separatist Bandits are there.
" Today too" To please you They try. என்றும். War and Massacre Lima
Your name is it While They will scare you. என்றும். Hello. But War Search
From Hallem. Separatist Bandits In those who Useless Rumor
And some Greedy Merchants * Market Riot For a thief
It is convenient. To say : Yes saying By those who create Confusion Don't be shy.
Door என்றும். Your call. In the corner Don't leak. என்றும். Hey you On Angry War and
Massacre No என்றும். War and Massacre Those who want But By war Field
They found it. என்றும். You miss me. Hello No more far away is not என்றும்.
It is close. என்றும். Don't leave us. Peace be upon you Those who want ; Peace be upon you Longing
Honest The broad People Parties Today In your midst Available என்றும். Mission
Koa Hello is it என்றும். Hello Eritrean People என்றும். Hello என்றும். Of
Cow Palm ...»
fourty minute Expensive Loud Program has been Made
Hut என்றும். The movies Yep to the Sanbel: Army Aviation I flew;
Morning As soon as I arrived For work Given to me red Lada Car என்றும். Agent
Nawa brand new Because she The road Foot She said. என்றும். When you fly Road
Dune She is pouring. Swallow You look like has been ...
Eremi A.Yation As soon as I arrived Major Tadesse Corinthians Age
I know. என்றும். Major Tadesse Coriander twenty four Time Full From the army
Aviation Field By bet It will not be lost. For the past seven Years ;
Honest Official Since as long as Ordinary person has All Which
Know known Institution I am fine. என்றும். Army Aviation Traffic and
Application Commander is it என்றும். Thank you. Key something Place is it The one who holds என்றும்.
Without He Good Will and Decision In the army Aviation Helicopters and
Airplanes Transportable it becomes Tika Loading person Wax என்றும். In the meantime
Root are Airplanes All In which minute Where Place On
What By working On As they are In the word knows என்றும்.
« Sister Tsegesh: » I have என்றும்.
Hot Without Smile and Good Permission Okay. Personal Money they are.
Tall ; Ask. : Body Dandana Coffee Soldier is it என்றும்.
« My commander This Movie to the Addis Ababa Let me send. I want has been என்றும்.
Today Night to appear Where Program " Yes, " I said. என்றும்.
" all right You have arrived. என்றும். In half Time Inside to the Addis Ababa Who
Motivation " Yes , I have. " The movies Where are you? Cardboard Welcome. #
« The flight What As much as Time Take it. " Is it ?" I said. ;
Country So When collaborating how Happy says I say In my heart என்றும்.
" two Time As much as »
Hand My watch. I looked. என்றும். Morning five Time As
Al. The movies " Edith ?" to make Enough Time By existence Happy
i have என்றும். Today evening " Peace " "Zembaba " . Easy Effort No, it is not. என்றும்.
What they thought thing When successful Happy says என்றும். however Myself To thank Time
I didn't have it. என்றும்.
« Thank you. My commander " I said . என்றும்.
" nothing else is not என்றும். The campaign Our friend is it " i have என்றும்.
« In the future As you understand me hope i do ..."
But N Wow N person What And time Understanding Must என்றும்.
T M " We will be jealous ," I said . Waist La
Wun Colt Adjusting என்றும். It's raining.
Borsch It has gone. என்றும். From here in the past Bright face On I saw it.
Unknown Mret Shadow I was read. என்றும்.
" Because" over here Field On how many Era " Did you spend it ?" I asked.
" seven Year என்றும். Sunbel Quran Heat They are taking turns.
' What? ' Right now over here The use second My nature It has happened. என்றும். Yay
Wiplan Silence I am not. I will tell you. Healthy i will be You say is it !"
Design day one Program " I am sorry ."
My health " Let them die ," I said. என்றும். Food I have to
My joke There was no என்றும். Him by providing cool Character
Drawing Possible என்றும். The eyes a lot Have you seen? ; * a lot History Record
Wall என்றும். In the past seven Years Sunbel Field Say What Who didn't see it?
 Will there be life ? ; Death ; Victory : Defeat என்றும்.
« Retirement From leaving
- Zunfso என்றும். Tea in the past Soon " You said it ." In the distance
« Retirement To leave is it Yes, yes. Tolkut "
" Yes." : Well then What Am I left ? Here. Field On Threshold Threshold Because
I don't know. My retirement Time Arrived என்றும். Property I am not afraid. : Call
I dreamed. என்றும். My property too My call too ; My life too Go away. Field
Be careful. என்றும். But From all thing Shape What do you think? From the plane Shout
My separation is it. Airplane When it rises my heart along with It fits. ; Come and
When landing my heart along with It rests. என்றும். Human thing It's amazing. என்றும். habit
Bad " It is ," I said . என்றும்.
Talk to me. My heart Touch it. என்றும். Key Place On such as High Of
‹ Experience They are rich. ; Healthy and Ability They don't have any. People : Opportunity
And them If it arrives ; why? In retirement As if they were isolated The trick No
' My father too . என்றும். Lager Case is it Age Revolutionary Measurement is it
‹ # Inside Who Yes ! We too Today In our youth What we are proud of tomorrow
We are getting old. என்றும். Sometimes Forever Young As Living No என்றும். The
For no one Young As to live If possible What He had to ! and Our children
Tradition The fanatics saying They rebelled against us. it will be என்றும். Who Do you remember ?
And ; The Jabiothites Children When you rebel What Will they be ? Wait a minute .
Genetic Conflict : Inevitable Historical Process ... two MiG -23
Warrior Airplanes Replaced Get up. என்றும். as a Kiweb Arrow
A little bit To my friend blue Sky They were thrown. என்றும். to the Nakfa என்றும். Major
Thaise On the airplanes Barista Inspired Remains has been என்றும்.
« So Trust The plane Addis Ababa When it arrives Television
People Go away. The movie To receive Phone " I'll call you ," I said.
me either My car I woke up. I flew * in five Time Half
From new Flower I am sick. With If you come Journalists 4 years old Eritrea period Country
ID card Merah Nation Minister Branch Office at home
worker With My office Meeting i had என்றும். Asmara Roads On
a lot Cars They are not visible. என்றும். Therefore is it I think so. : The resident
People Edge holding Let's go. thing Forgotten feel like என்றும். even if My office
Time I arrived. I hired them. People still Arrival On Elefa.
Comrade My grace Haile Mary . In the morning Politics Department Propa
Gandana Agitation Class Head that Zework Color Written
sign Kiroye Door On Sorry. Fo appears என்றும்.
« Rezan First brand new Flower From Ethiopia Television
* Phone with Number 12 39 74 Link என்றும். next to Room Go back.
Telecommunications Work manager With என்றும். Okay ? I said. என்றும்.
« Pronto என்றும். all right Forehead » .
Rezan Mercy My writer she is என்றும். Mouse She seems to be "
Hairless The best She doesn't have it. என்றும். beautiful : Tuturhar Similar Long
7 days ago . She has என்றும். Most of them Asmara Women Beauty Hair ;
Eye and Their teeth Light என்றும். Most of them on foot Shape Lucky They are not. என்றும்.
" Addis Ababa " she said. Length: " Hello ." Oh ? I'm sorry. Comrade. all right
We have arrived. ; Goat From her arrival Leaf The breakup To say Work
We have started. என்றும். I called. For this has been என்றும். I have sent a film . -
Dash « Five » Airplane holding Coming என்றும். From two Time
Later Bole person I sent you. To take Do ; Today Night to appear
It should. Chow Forehead »
right away Telecommunications Call came என்றும்.
« Who Should I say ?... Okay. Comrade என்றும். My grace Hailemariam My name is "
From here The Kadesh Political Department is it I'm calling .... Okay ...
all right We arrived ... good. right now I wanted you. one Urgent fat
Saba existence Let me tell you. It was ... now ... the place. in the past Public
Safety was Building is it From the house Government Behind என்றும்.
Government Employees Circle Face In front என்றும். Politics Department
saying Come -- time We don't have ... now. " .
I spoke. All Official Speech behavior To be held Me too
Back I was surprised. : to be Must ; right now என்றும். Surprisingly thing
Also person Authority When they show it Shocking என்றும். Hugueaz Politics
Department என்றும்.
Suddenly My office Door By force Opened என்றும். I was shocked. என்றும். Solomon
In Tregiorgis Eritrean Open Country red Star Versatile Father
Yotawi Campaign Link Officer has been என்றும். From black * Bright
face On all the time The indestructible Sincere The smile Band Time
person It will attack. என்றும். Height Briefly: His body Fear Without ; Fatigue
What they say thing face Say Invisible person is it என்றும்.
.. « This Let me give you has been " I came ," he said. In a hurry " D.
Chom It will be rushed. என்றும். all the time It will be rushed. என்றும். Time Expensiveness Since I
. You understand. Possible என்றும். When you see it For running Prepared feel like என்றும்.
Not available Place No என்றும். Also Wherever Place No என்றும். Let's go.
Your child.
- " what is My child I said. What he gave me Volumes In a hurry
Let's not be lazy. I am watching. என்றும்.
. Deyheugeaze Departments Organizational Structure and Work to eat
Rules they are என்றும். This Even For you to tell I don't have to ...
But ... only Secretly to have They must என்றும். Ohun What's left? thing
If there is The objectives functional To do is it என்றும். Action » I have என்றும்.
Military Campaign Plan Department: Military Politics
Department ; Economic Development Campaign Plan Department ; Country
Rana Public Security The art Department ; Inspection Sick
Riya ; Farmers Organizing Agriculture Development Department ( Gemagel )
Those who say Volumes Were என்றும்.
« Collect them is it This All Made " Your bank ?" I said. என்றும்.
« From Ispaoco Its centers Committee second Standard Meeting
Since This is it. When we work is it What is it? என்றும். Kand Year Above
It's too late for us ," he said. Answer He gave it to me. என்றும்.
" cool Preparation It is .... true ...»
" Yes cool Preparation done என்றும். But What Does it work ?
On When we arrive We are messy. என்றும். In a nutshell to make No, it won't.
Also என்றும். Held it. Kidnapped him. to say is it Envy us என்றும். My truth. is it ....
Let's Our birthday ; Our wedding ; Our death Our lives and
What we ate Condition Think about it. என்றும். Objectiveness It will be abundant. என்றும்.
In Egyptian operation Like us, " Genius ? " People In the middle On Without
i don't think so "
« From Egypt Where we are leaving Time is it I miss you. என்றும்.
Socialism the foundation Plan ... Plan ... Organizational... Medium
operation It is .. without this . Socialist Order and Construction how
To carry out As we can " I don't understand, " he said . என்றும்.
« We will learn என்றும். Eight Year One person Age No
« Children " If we fear, " he said. Laughter ,
" how ?"
« Today For his wife Who Time it has You say Is it ? In our body
It is Night at home The # that will be delivered and Also Let's go. Worse. Wrong.
Ton: time Turf ; Woman When we are fired What we use is it They think so.
as a my mom Thought Not as a my wife Take me away. Say took off
Big prayer It's # Nega Care Meeting என்றும். morning Meeting என்றும். Night
Meeting என்றும். Midnight Are you tired? Your home When you enter From your wife With fat
seventy என்றும். Life Continuous Meeting Process She has become என்றும். When Time
We found it. As we produce " I don't understand, " he said. We joked. next to ,
« What You are missing. thing " Is there ? " He asked me. என்றும்.
" nothing else என்றும். all of them thing cool is it என்றும். The organization ; The event
Fault " He won't come out, " I said . என்றும். Cho
From the neck Above Thanks Not My name is Kanjeta. has been என்றும். Cadiz Flower
For the one who came person All as a Mararguna As / in charge Suitable
Residence at home : Complete Office ; Personal vehicle From fuel ;
With a smile By address Organized by Prepared keep out really
Easy Work No, Solomon. Who It happened. என்றும். Spending employer is it என்றும்.
So With a whip is not ; With a smile Done It works. என்றும். I know her.
For me என்றும். Land person The work Goal High : The time Also Short
You're welcome. If you give it Whatever he wants Done. Stay tuned. that
Idiom it has என்றும்.
" This is it. " Season sleep " I didn't sleep ," he said . என்றும்.
Corn Lie It seems white The tooth ; Nice Happy If there is
black face Ghana Regret It is fascinating. என்றும்.
« But Are you tired? " You don't look like it, " I said. என்றும்.
When you see it Rested due to person is it It seems ; all the time என்றும்.
" black person The disadvantage face On Because it is invisible it will be "
i have " What? " Yours sincerely The snorer It is too much. " .
" why ?"
« Yadisaba person All Our year In Guyana As it holds Come and is it
over here The one who was laid out. The smallest : The biggest one Personal Car ; Bed;
Class Office Wants என்றும். For this All person Personal Car : Personal
Bed House and Office from where I will give birth. Is it ? Really ? Labad a bit
is it What's left for me? என்றும். Running is it Decision " I give it to you " என்றும்.
« Be brave
« This Campaign Past I saw. Only
The work Hagatoze Politics Department Responsibility Only Not ,
The campaign General Preparation Hospitality : The biggest Conference
Pre Preparation and Mitzvah Festival Composition All Him suitable
For the sake of Were என்றும். By him Zota Because I am not Luckily Thank you. என்றும். Hell
Inside Wandering Soul holding has been The one who runs என்றும்.
« Inexhaustible thing No ; " Don't worry, " I said. என்றும்.
" To the Congress and For the sake of Judo Festival how many People From the table
Ethiopia Invited Like a dome Do you know ?
" how many "Are you ?"
« They will be around 2115 ; right now over here Available From 400 yen
Sum என்றும். Yehu Let's Do you see it ?
« Oh " Boy ," I said . என்றும்.
one Nez : I'm surprised. Oh Canal; to say I am jealous. என்றும்.
« Congress About 69 on The whole Ethiopia Done Villagers
Representatives ; Eritrean period 10 Religious Leaders ; Special
Special Bars Members Speech they do என்றும். Do you see this ?
All Ours H.F. is it என்றும்.
« In this On For the public What is offered? Songs and Psalms
Already To evaluate ; Posters ; By plane Articles ; Small
Magazines ,; Ethics Articles Mottos prepare Yes என்றும்.
Read Inside is it Without you என்றும். Joke " No ," he said . In the distance
Breathe என்றும்.
" We're leaving ," I said. என்றும்.
« So type Spirit Happy I say. என்றும். Currently Time Which
When I hate you thing If there is About the problem to hear is it என்றும். My neck Until Dry
Seoul என்றும். Especially Personal Problem to hear You make me nauseous. என்றும். Personal
Our problem Let's leave. For common use Purpose If we run how cool has been என்றும்.
You're welcome. This Country person one brand new Organization came When they say
Skin About The application holding The one who runs To there
is it. Anyway thing Hey you The propaganda and The agitation
Work Hold on tight. Hold me. என்றும். Another Death No » Tolen என்றும்.
The mind Inside a lot Thoughts Where to walk It seems
No என்றும். Certain Note Notebook to have He doesn't like it. என்றும். I found it.
Bubble Paper On Note Writing It is common. என்றும். cool
His/her What it contains He will not forget. என்றும்.
« What can I do? All " I will, " I said. என்றும்.
" cool என்றும். As I said sunny Thinking Happy I say. என்றும். Which
It encourages me. This one is it என்றும். person All What as a Touch it. I have it.
Taste sunny It has happened. என்றும். all of them On Change appears என்றும். Tamar is it.
This Campaign a lot thing Without teaching us Probably என்றும். By the way On
About " Jaming " Jeanne , From here Radio To transfer Because we can
Method Don't forget. என்றும். Comrade Chief Chair Strictly What they thought Case
" In the same way" Case On To talk right now We gather »
I said.
« Lanbesa They don't bite. ; For you They won't tell. என்றும். all right Contain
dream Chow " Forehead, " he said. You are welcome. என்றும்.
Ajre - He did it for me. has been Who left? என்றும். Without me knowing I didn't carry it.
Responsibility There was no என்றும். even if I'm sorry. என்றும். From Solomon With
to make all the time Happy I say. என்றும். He left me. i like it என்றும். Good morning
clear is it என்றும். Soon thing It cuts. என்றும். as a Pagume Rain Sleep with me.
He doesn't say என்றும். decides என்றும். Sometimes Fear called thing From the record
The words Inside No என்றும். Revolution Going on . For tomorrow . to say Not possible ;
I will send it. let it be Error Decide Required ; The verdict For history's sake
give up is it says என்றும்.
So Some People Hurry is it They say it. என்றும். Others
Also Authority Loves Saying as a army They are afraid of him. என்றும். That ;
let it be This ; Important Determined as long as it becomes Until I What Dad !
As I said Important Determined person He left me. I love you என்றும். Life
Continuous Decision and Determination Process No ! Man ! Stone
Toydel என்றும். Important Determined to be Must என்றும். Decide ,; Human
Child Fate Instead is it .... .
The meeting Continued என்றும். My office In person It is full. என்றும். Done
They were Women too Were என்றும். And at home When entering Knbnb Untouchable Country என்றும்.
Bad is it.
" ... where we came from " Purpose clear is it. nothing else Hidden thing
don't have என்றும். What are we hiding? thing No என்றும். From the wide People Who
hide thing to live No என்றும். History - The Maker He Because it is என்றும்.
« This Often What I'm saying The campaign Public Character
To remind As much as is it என்றும். Eritrean The sun. Country red Star
Versatile Revolutionary Campaign It is called ; In short Hugeaz என்றும்.
« The purpose . In this period Country On For the past Twenty Years ;
as a Koso Stuck ; The wide one Eritrean Done Ader People
Hello When they wake up The blood When they come Those who lived Separatist Bandits
London Finally Time Deleted : by them Reason The fallen
economy Back build up is it என்றும்.
« Friends : the first Our work ; From here Time Since ;
Huguenazen Genzata Mission Appearance Highlight show up it will be என்றும்.
in case as a You heard it. As you can see ; Separatist Gangster
S ; Now War and Massacre To come to you is it Saying Hello
Maui People To scare They started. என்றும். In this due to Market
Getting naked is it. Greedy And merchants In the situation Used
The people By robbing In Marakot On Available என்றும்.
« Separatist Parties Latest Purpose The people To scare And;
Far away Their purpose ; The people Life and The revolution Amaro To
Shaft to do is it என்றும். 1959 and The story of 1978 In no way Condition
It will not be repeated. என்றும். History himself It won't happen again. என்றும். Break Propaganda
Let's We are established. By failing The people Calm down We must Now
Since என்றும். By topic Articles ; In Comments › In News . On the radio
On television Programs And And newspapers. it becomes Radio Pro
Our villages Content All The campaign Character . Content and Shape
To hold as one more time To evaluate They must என்றும். Repo
My name is In two day Inside To reach me Required என்றும்.
Campaign N Military Character and Appearance The bridge What
Cross it. When we arrive It is As it is said ; in the future at the moment happened
We are tired. We will explain. என்றும். As I said From the people What we hide
thing No என்றும்.
« Sanja With a sigh ! Forward ! Our pens I mean is it #
over here On one Caution To do We must என்றும். Fight him ! Kill him !
Drive him away ! Let's save. என்றும். Sometimes As you know
This period Country Problem Complex is it என்றும். Husband ; Wife . Child ;
sister ; Uncle ; Aunt ; mother ; father Desert Where he didn't go
Family No என்றும். What we do Propaganda All By the way
Crushing to be No -- the campaign Class Sea
Raina Appearance Without forgetting என்றும். Question " Do you have it ?" The campaign
Purpose and Content in short I explained to them. என்றும். My joke is it என்றும். Short
Golsa There was no என்றும். a lot thing is it What I said என்றும். Sometimes Pole
Tika Decisions From where they give Passage On Suddenly Attendance *
a lot Because it informs is it I think so. ; Unwillingly a lot He speaks. என்றும்.
By yourself On Badly Trustworthy Feeling creates என்றும். End Lately
Arrogance To keep Stay away. Maybe ? By myself. On What I saw thing cool
Trend consist of I don't think so. என்றும். Now person To speak Not
Down To speak I started Back What Should I be ? Yes ! Power
Liquor Rabo On If it comes out Back Superstition is it !
One His hand Take it out. " The music " All Chase him. : Gre
Cure ; Kill me. is it that என்றும். What Let's do it. we can ?"
that Question Offered to me என்றும்.
« Done Unobtrusive if so Entertaining rock me to provide
We can » I said. என்றும்.
« Entertaining Songs " There are " I said. என்றும்.
" Hi ?"
« But Most of them Blessings The sun Songs they are "
« From today Since Let go. என்றும். they Take it. But We What We are in trouble. என்றும்.
" Let them go " Order I gave. என்றும்.
other Question I was not approached. என்றும். Prepared Slogans Comrade
Solomon Stick George Give me File Inside I took it out. Gave
Behind them என்றும். Twenty Slogans Were என்றும்.
" all right Friends These Slogans From today Since In every profession
We use them. என்றும். Leader Posters and And the songs Closed
They are tired. என்றும். Back To reach you " It will be done, " I told them. Straight
Yem " Ours " Slogan Also ; Good morning Direct Thinking : Good morning
Direct Action to be Must என்றும். The future person Good morning Direct
Who? It is -- socialist. person Good morning Direct Thinking Good morning
Direct Journalists Wants என்றும். Revolutionary Ethiopia
"For Nikal " journalists From here Place " She doesn't have it ," I told them. என்றும்.
Objective Emotional . Being . Back Me I don't like it. என்றும். We
Ethiopians Just like that Deme -» Hot That we are By myself
On I saw it. என்றும்.
« This one is it "Guys ," I said -- " This Historical Campaign From there
Some of us Without None Creative Our skills Requires என்றும். Whole
Creative Our skills Without saving to use We should என்றும்.
« But From privacy : From emotion and From Egypt To
Distance Trust என்றும். Central operation Principle Waiting and Respect
Must ; ok bye " .
Class The country Memorable Merah Nation Ministry Shape
Edge Office at home Head : Class The country Telecommunications
Work Manager and Asmara Radio Station Head Back To
left I did. Others I dismissed him. என்றும். all of them For work was
Feelings and Owl Enjoy has been என்றும். Direct People : Direct web
Git : Direct Inside me He laughs. Should I say ? But High Without hope Lately
I am has been என்றும். in case I am wrong. it will be என்றும். Most of them The revolution
That Rule a lot Time Originating ; Human Child Character By
They did it. cool It is - T -- Qena It is --- direct is it From what he says Asta
I don't think so. is it என்றும். " Father " it will be. Perhaps Maybe not. Can என்றும்.
I do not know என்றும். so far Tell us. I did not confirm. என்றும்.
" all right Friends --- the three of you Special Acute Work You have to என்றும்.
Now minute " I told them , 'Cuchemro '." என்றும்.
: Zed M What are you doing ?
Telecommunications Man why? As called left open minded
feel like என்றும். as a Jump Long and Giant is it . The radio Man
Also If we wait Short ; red ; eye Fast is it என்றும். The eye
to the Outside Because it is noisy. When you see it Fool feel like என்றும். Branch
Office Our house Head as a Fool Silence Say He laughs. என்றும். all the time
It's funny. thing What If I don't understand. என்றும். person All so funny
Apparently It is visible. Is it ? Bald In Rana Cheek is it என்றும்.
" Friend ," I said. The radio Man --- « Today Noon Later
Since ; Today If not possible But From tomorrow Morning Since ; In no way Condition
Gangster Radio Station The one who spreads Program Closing ...
A .... jam To be done Must " .
Shabia Radio Program Distribution Time : The site
What to use Waves and Frequency If you come to me Secret
File Inside I took it out. I gave it to him. என்றும்.
to the Outside In the round The eyes The information Looked at. :
" How ?" I said. என்றும்.
" how What ?
Technical People Attitude To some extent if i know என்றும்.
Amal They happened. in advance Possible What they say thing No என்றும்.
Problem Sort They will be jealous -- just like the rest . Others Profession
Loch Problem Those who spend Experts என்றும்.
« Enough Technicians We don't have ...»
« Communication is it ..."
« The transmitter Load When it is crowded To burn Can ...»
« Don't burn Caring ...»
« In this On Domo In Combishtato to the Truck B Technician
We Reflexive Enough Service No என்றும். Truck B From Zizo seven
Kilo Meter is it என்றும். From the city Cost so so From the evening Later to the
City Login Not possible " .
« Friend -- About the server If you have With Talk என்றும். If necessary
Right there To stay overnight : other Option No என்றும். Shabia Radio Station
Sewing machine Tongue Cut Alezat என்றும். how As you do. My
Case It is not. என்றும். The decision Practical To do Yours Instead
What is it? The expert Hey you Are you என்றும். I i am not The work In no way
Condition To make Alezat என்றும். We are in control. " Friend ?" I said. என்றும்.
Fast The eyes That's it. to the Outside They were visited. என்றும். Crazy
Wow Or Fool ? feel like என்றும். sure i am என்றும். This has been
In his heart that என்றும். Technicians I know them. I said. என்றும். by them
Eye Another All Madness Silly is it. Mnanzath Right to be leave
Who என்றும். What we are talking about Career Our glasses Defect once in a while
Or , many Time The truth Lost Shows -- Professional Disease !
to the TV Work manager Turn I think " Friend " ; From work On
Because I called you. I'm sorry I beg you. என்றும். But The work so true lost
Duffy so so " Yes, " I said. என்றும்.
Note The notebook Preparing ; " nothing else is not என்றும்.
What " Was it ?" I said. 2
Stranger Bureaucrat is it : Or I thought -- you're welcome. Feeling
Without Like bureaucracy . Who Are you Hey you Is that so ? It seems
No Mouth Take it out. Even if you don't ask. என்றும்.
" Yes ; To Big Conference over here Will be done என்றும். The one who is responsible
Process From here On the radio For the whole Ethiopia One and one Wanted ..»
" Come on, " I said. The eyebrows From : Down As என்றும்.
6 and House Government If there is Resurrection Hallway with us Stu
Dio Between * Cable and " Other " Important thing All To be extended is it
" When ?" I said. என்றும்.
« We are afraid. Inside. Public In Saba Stadium
the same Work 2 Construction Must " .
one more time The eyebrows High ; Down did என்றும். Ironical Smile
black ; Tall Solve On appears என்றும். Tall face Worse Sound It's long.
« The command In writing if cool " It was ," I said . என்றும்.
« Now - for the bureaucracy Time We don't have any. Comrade என்றும். Campaign By conducting
On is it " We are ," I said. Angrily என்றும்.
In this Through The debate I didn't contribute. Because is it I think so. Tell us.
Honey : Do it. " It is possible " Christmas By contract known is not "
i have என்றும்.
" be able Must என்றும். Impossible Reason No என்றும். the process
The exchange of ideas To do " It is " other What I say thing I didn't read.
I am tired. என்றும்.
" How ? Yadisaba. " Radio Station From here What is being transmitted?
Program Receive and * relay ' is it "Yes " --
Advertisement The Ministry person has been என்றும். as a He The dead Opened
Laughing Speaking person I didn't see it. என்றும்.
« Yes --- buddy என்றும். in case For three four Dates From here
What is being transmitted? Any thing Receiving * Relay "
Root is it What is required என்றும். The day Full --- Three four Dates »
If I said Later in addition " From today onwards " Since in case For a while
Months Asmara Main Our city She has become என்றும். The campaign In the morning
T Asmara she is My decision Center Did we do it ? By the way On
Gjamingunna * The relay Work Follow me. Execution Yours Head
Nut is it என்றும். Jammingun Work Tomorrow Day Realtone Five
Q › . Here it is. is it " Friends ," I said. Shout I think என்றும்.
The sound Official Voice has been என்றும். I use it.
Method Special Official Method has been என்றும். Sometimes Responsibility Soon
Say to the Down throw up common Method has become என்றும். me either While
Cancut Not Will it remain ? Also My speed !
- My phone Shout என்றும். Three Phones Sorted என்றும். Which one
As I lift Surprise i have , Inside My phone has been என்றும்.
" hello ?"
« Solomon i am ..."
" all right "Friend ..."
« For lunch You didn't go. "Right ?"
Sewing machine Tongue Cut Alezat என்றும். how As you do. My
Case It is not. என்றும். The decision Practical To do Yours Instead
What is it? The expert Hey you Are you என்றும். I i am not The work In no way
Condition To make Alezat என்றும். We are in control. " Friend ?" I said. என்றும்.
Fast The eyes That's it. to the Outside They were visited. என்றும். Crazy
Wow Or Fool ? feel like என்றும். sure i am என்றும். This has been
In his heart that என்றும். Technicians I know them. I said. என்றும். by them
Eye Another All Madness Silly is it. Mnanzath Right to be leave
Who என்றும். What we are talking about Career Our glasses Defect once in a while
Or , many Time The truth Lost Shows -- Professional Disease !
to the TV Work manager Turn I think " Friend " ; From work On
Because I called you. I'm sorry I beg you. என்றும். But The work so true lost
Duffy so so " Yes, " I said. என்றும்.
Note The notebook Preparing ; " nothing else is not என்றும்.
What " Was it ?" I said.
Stranger Bureaucrat is it : Or I thought -- you're welcome. Feeling
Without Like bureaucracy . Who Are you Hey you Is that so ? It seems
No Mouth Take it out. Even if you don't ask. என்றும்.
" Yes ; To Big Conference over here Will be done என்றும். The one who is responsible
Process From here On the radio For the whole Ethiopia One and one Wanted ..»
" Come on, " I said. The eyebrows From : Down As என்றும்.
And House Government If there is Resurrection Hallway with us Stu
Dio Between * Cable and " Other " Important thing All To be extended
is it ... .
" When ?" I said. என்றும்.
« We are afraid. Inside. Public In Saba Stadium
the same Work 2 Construction Must " .
one more time The eyebrows High ; Down did என்றும். Ironical Smile
black ; Tall Solve On appears என்றும். Tall face Worse Sound It's long.
« The command In writing if cool " It was ," I said . என்றும்.
« Now - for the bureaucracy Time We don't have any. Comrade என்றும். Campaign By conducting
On is it " We are ," I said. Angrily என்றும்.
In this Through The debate I didn't contribute. Because is it I think so. Tell us.
Honey : Do it. " It is possible " Christmas By contract known is not "
i have என்றும்.
" be able Must என்றும். Impossible Reason No என்றும். the process
The exchange of ideas To do " It is " other What I say thing I didn't read.
I am tired. என்றும்.
" How ? Yadisaba. " Radio Station From here What is being transmitted?
Program Receive and * relay ' is it "Yes " --
Advertisement The Ministry person has been என்றும். as a He The dead Opened
Laughing Speaking person I didn't see it. என்றும்.
« Yes --- buddy என்றும். in case For three four Dates From here
What is being transmitted? Any thing Receiving * Relay "
Root is it What is required என்றும். The day Full --- Three four Dates »
If I said Later in addition " From today onwards " Since in case For a while
Months Asmara Main Our city She has become என்றும். The campaign In the morning
T Asmara she is My decision Center Did we do it ? By the way On
Gjamingunna * The relay Work Follow me. Execution Yours Head
Nut is it என்றும். Jammingun Work Tomorrow Day Realtone Five
Q › . Here it is. is it " Friends ," I said. Shout I think என்றும்.
The sound Official Voice has been என்றும். I use it.
Method Special Official Method has been என்றும். Sometimes Responsibility Soon
Say to the Down throw up common Method has become என்றும். me either While
Cancut Not Will it remain ? Also My speed !
- My phone Shout என்றும். Three Phones Sorted என்றும். Which one
As I lift Surprise i have , Inside My phone has been என்றும்.
" hello ?"
« Solomon i am ..."
" all right "Friend ..."
« For lunch You didn't go. "Right ?"
Hand My watch. I looked. என்றும். seven Time It's over. என்றும்.
I'm not hungry. என்றும். Anyway thing In a certain way Time Of, of
Experience don't have என்றும். Journalists Experience is it I don't want to say some
Gluttons You will not be lost. என்றும்.
« Slowly " Say " For himself What not to use Advice He advised me;
" right now I called you. Right Biscuit Time Total Meeting Feed
run Let me tell you. is it . " i have என்றும்.
« ? T is it The place ?
« House Government. Comrade Chief Chair Office என்றும். Right At eight
Time "Huh ? Chow ..."
The phone Onorku என்றும்.
« Comrade one thing clear " I didn't get it, " I said . Class
The country Advertisement Ministry Man என்றும்.
" What ?"
" This Hugueaz Propaganda and Agitation Class Our "
Riabet Employment relationship clear May it be for me I want " That's it ," I said.
In another Speech Hey you Who Are you ? Was. I have என்றும். Right is it என்றும்.
By him at home no one nothing else i am not என்றும். He Class Sorry
Branch Office Home -- Junior Advertising and Merah
Nation Ministry Superior Head is it என்றும். I Ethiopian Television
Department Main Class Head i am என்றும். how Vlo Uphill Can you see me ?
No என்றும். Tell us. From myself in terms of personally What I don't see Case to the Kneeling;
" Yes Comrade ; cool Question is it என்றும். From ISAAC : From the military
Class ; From the advertisement Ministry And others Office Houses
From a lot Journalists ; Photograph Movie Photographers
over here They have come. என்றும். Hugeaz Own Politics Department and In this Sick
Riya Root Available Propaganda and Agitation Class Will have என்றும்.
« The Haggai Naropagandana Agitation Class Also Under the root News ;
Printing ; Radio and Television Nhus Rooms They will live. என்றும்.
Organizational The structure -- work The instruction Since then The chart ; Let's
Dihum The work order Follow -- Strategy The tactic
In two : Three day Inside Ready Will give it to you. என்றும். Hugeazen
Referring to About the broadcast Any Propaganda and Agitation
given Guide Here it will be என்றும். We agreed. " Friend ?" I asked.
" all right "
« What Shape What you have he said >
" nothing else
" cool என்றும். But ... yes ... Kadisaba We came. People Yours
Work To help ... a .... to strengthen is it But Ananten To replace
Or Your work To be honest Not clearly To be known
Must என்றும். And Now Our work On time Spirit and cool sincere
Jit If we don't start Back Responsible He asks us. . " i say
My words I love you. I am doing என்றும். In the same way The speech I didn't stop. என்றும்.
Continue " From the middle " Country For this Campaign We came. People In Care Of Eritrea
period Country Problem Solution More we know ; The Labyrinth
More We are busy. Or For those who are connected red Cobweb Campaign
Success More We think. that Spirit We have i don't think so என்றும்.
If there is Error is it என்றும். Now Correction Must என்றும். thing Edible
Saturday So type Attitude Thinking is it என்றும். Solution
We will find We say Worse Problem Let's not create Be careful. Need
Gal என்றும். Frenchies As they say ; Solution But Problem Category
to become We didn't come. என்றும். Enough Problem Creators are there என்றும். More
We don't need it. என்றும்.
« By the way On ... not forgetting ... the community and Ethiopian
Newspapers Distribution Number High to say Must என்றும். About money Don't
Meat என்றும். And Also In Amharic In Tigrinya 45 minutes Programs
morning : Morning --- If you work - two Half Until Two -- come on.
We will teach. என்றும். Five day Inside என்றும். The programs Shape and Content
As the case may be Childbearing Type if cool is it என்றும். This too
Yours Responsibility is it என்றும். five day என்றும். Good " Work "
I accompanied them. என்றும்.
five Dates என்றும். Happy People There were no என்றும். me either I am not.
Berkum என்றும். Cruel Even i am not என்றும். But The work To make
Must என்றும். What Choice Will there be life ? Duties Chain
she is என்றும். Responsibility It bothers us. I think so. என்றும். Anyway Negor a lot
has been What I said என்றும். Speech ! Speech ! Speech ! Our time !
sign என்றும். some C " ch Socialism from speech With Attachment
Without starting The slaughter என்றும். a lot Speech a bit Work. No என்றும். Others
Also From the meeting With They will tie it. என்றும். Meeting ! Meeting ! Meeting !
Review ! Review ! Review ! Many Meeting என்றும். a lot Review a bit
Result. Others again From slogans With Without holding it They will not remain. என்றும்.
Slogan ; Slogan . Poetry . Also Here On Our hurry ;
Our hurry Our race Don't fall ! is it என்றும். Action ! To die for.
Time No என்றும். To rest --- to love Time No என்றும். Revolution ! Children !
Chuan She eats. Are there any from outside ? Ordered Cameras Case Osa
I thought about it a little. prayer In my heart I delivered. என்றும்.
After Qetari
The hall In person Filled என்றும். all of them as a The protocol
has been Placed -- in order என்றும். Name Our name consist of Card
in front Our face Saved என்றும். my name Where it is written Card I saw.
I sat down. என்றும். I am busy. Place The last Chair has been என்றும்.
hang on Star " logo" Where Hugueaz Special Note Notebook
From each of us Face Table On Sorted என்றும். Smoking
No என்றும். From the crack Unbound person No என்றும். all of them as a The capacity Tan
It's over. Change appears என்றும். Beard -- beard Extension --- Askra
Bat Chest Reversed Gun Agenda To be confused - to be confused - to be confused ;
There is " Wash --- Protocol." Unexpected Disrespect ; Hand
Gourd Khaki Coat Deeply It's a mess. ;as a Revolution Who
Taizé Time Finished feel like என்றும். Ethics system It is settled. என்றும். Father
Yot Reversed that It will disappear. Yes ! Sometimes. System Album
Happiness Those who miss them some People You will not be lost. என்றும்.
In large made Today Organizational Structure Chart Closed
It is clear. என்றும். Others a lot Charts and Time Documents Spread out
appear என்றும். so true The event a lot Time and Effort Without asking Al
Remaining i say In my heart என்றும். List Things Without fail Thoughts
feel like என்றும். to the The meeting Hall What is entered? Door Suddenly
Opened என்றும். Comrade Chief Chair Come. என்றும். all of them From the seat
To On When it rises Chaos Created என்றும்.
" like what You are welcome. Friends என்றும். Sit down. Say என்றும். Sit down. Say »
Saying Let's not stop. Soon saying Sit down. என்றும். black A gentleman
Clothes : Water blue Shirt ; the foundation white As black Patterns
get rid of get rid of Where they are Tie With They are wearing என்றும். Their smile
Hot said என்றும். Happy have They seem to என்றும். Without a priest Face Did you see?
They say, "Come on ! " Idiom Remember i have என்றும். all of them Smile He said என்றும்.
me either Smile i say. By authority Location such as People one Type
Culture Or Experience They will establish Let me tell you !
Eagle Eyes They seem to The person Eyes From the well
their Inside The boy Away Enjoy Started என்றும். Their humility No
In the garden Their spirit and Their determination It is hidden. # The man --
She and Water Lamb Child black Tiger all of them one On.
When you see them In person On something Faith They spend time என்றும்.
« Comrade Chief Chair ; Let's start. We can » Hugeaz Main
Writer Were What they said - Circle Their faces ; Their teeth ; Eyes
Their From the head Bald them With Heart Mental Cleanliness Honesty
laugh one On Laughing They seem to என்றும். And when they speak They laugh. என்றும். Fadelat
Small ; Especially as a Hu ,; B : Cave And Such as Don't wash.
" What ? The letter." Also Wherever It is Bring it. They are surprised. என்றும்.
*# वुटय -- अलाई --- दुफ्र --- means If you start since
Amharic I understand. " It has begun, " they say, " when Joke They won't lose. என்றும்.
one Time What they said Joke Remember He says to me , " One Old age
Were Profit Buy ... house ; at home They are inherited. என்றும். In 658
kebele Gone When registering Sixty My year is it saying has been என்றும். In 74
one more time When registering Their age When asked Time Still
60 years If I answer They are scattered ... if I say so . என்றும். The Qabalah Officer Width
The one Rebellion Where? Leave it. My father ? When they registered in Bo 68
60 years old. is it saying has been Silethon Time '* Six Year
Don't count me out. my baby " I didn't live there, " they said. It will grow ... it will get worse. என்றும்.
Laugh Upgrade They like it. No Dress ! Dress! Sometimes no one
To No என்றும். Always Goosebumps As they are is it என்றும். From the head Their hair
as long as Leg Their nails என்றும். Hair Even They don't have " Foot "
From the bottom of the sea The road On Grass " It won't stop, " they say. On their own
On When they joke என்றும். By yourself On To joke be able Grace is it என்றும். Healthy too
is it என்றும். Many of us So kind Grace Evil Justice As Al
We are blessed. என்றும். Their age This As much as is not என்றும். Push Bill
From Zomsa They don't roll. என்றும். But , In the spirit From any Young
More Young they are என்றும். Youth Exodus Only When it becomes
What is measured ? What do we have ? And the spirit From the wall should என்றும். All "Ts "
is it What they say என்றும். For them all of them "What !" is it? என்றும். Sweet Nuts !
The meeting Agenda For everyone Discrimination Nether என்றும்.
" all right Friends : Today's Our meeting Purpose ; Eritrean period
Country red Star Versatile Revolutionary Our campaign General Shape
Perseverance Content well We understand. When we finish On our doorstep Distressed
Wun Historical Work Today ; tomorrow Sanel To start So that we can For me
Draught " It is " Their speech Started என்றும்.
" This red " Star " name No more The famous
Historical Our campaign We stopped him. Class Struggle Body As it is
Social ; Traditional ; Economical Political Military Page
Taina Contents They say என்றும். This National And Revolutionary Our campaign
The main Character Publicity is it என்றும்.
« Earlier When If you are lucky Organizational Structure and Work
Guide To understand As much as possible ( all of you) As you arrive
hope I will do it )» from a little duration Later « The campaign Purpose ;
This Northern period Our country and In this period Country Available
Done Ader People ; In this Location Immaterialism Dependent
from those From history Sludge London Finally Time Free Leaving
Tan ; From a gun Mouth A lot of work Side To the side Social ;
Traditional . Political Economical Construction Works Progress ;
Class The country Done Ader People Like the rest Ethiopian
Done Peasants . Our revolution . Fruit Taster Stop Only Say
Yes ; And himself Labiot Process and Strength contribution to do
is it.
« Red Star Our campaign Three Major Chapters Let them live.
Tall என்றும். One Translation For the campaign What is needed Attack
On Studies and Events To do has been என்றும். General The study and
The event It's over. Here it is. Today over here We have arrived. என்றும். Fasting What's left? Work
The campaign To preach When For this The important thing Platform While
Ready is it என்றும். coming soon one Great Conference Will be done என்றும். as well
From the council With related one Great Mitzvah Festival என்றும். Both
The one who sleeps Chapter War The field Fight Start and The destroyed
Economic Networks Back setting up it will be என்றும். Third
Translation Free In the exits And the rest Locations All Class
Our country Mzbr Geberas Activate ; Organizing and Equip
it will be என்றும். The decisive thing Organization is it என்றும். And last one Our goal
Babies Kneel Only is not என்றும். Far away Our goal In this
Earth " Building socialism " is it என்றும்.
« Friends ! Today In this Time and location What we are getting into Tall Easy
is not என்றும். tomorrow : History and Ethiopia Wide People He asks us. என்றும்.
This Because ; Twenty Year Full When organizing When you are bathing What has been
A warrior flock From here character Earth Done. We will destroy. To say Look.
Delem என்றும். 5 acres To break As we can But My dear
don't have என்றும்.
« Today Our future Dependent ; Shield Follow What happened? Oh my.
Yotawi Our army How much? And the time More Organized ;
Armed என்றும். National and Revolutionary The message knows என்றும். the house ;
property ; My comfort Without saying : fox Wells Decided With determination
Nut He fights. ; Every minute From Benallat With Teacher For you Roro Choking
It will fall. என்றும். This In Ethiopia Dear Young Children Built
Army Asking Price ; From the revolution and National one
His/her other thing No என்றும். over here Where you are staying Time Life You are not welcome.
it will be. But to think You have to In the morning Hole What is living? Father
Yotawi Our army is it " . " saying For the time being Their speech
Geta you did என்றும்.
Laugh Upgrade They like it. No Dress ! Dress! Sometimes no one
To No என்றும். Always Goosebumps As they are is it என்றும். From the head Their hair
as long as Leg Their nails என்றும். Hair Even They don't have " Foot "
From the bottom of the sea The road On Grass " It won't stop, " they say. On their own
On When they joke என்றும். By yourself On To joke be able Grace is it என்றும். Healthy too
is it என்றும். Many of us So kind Grace Evil Justice As Al
We are blessed. என்றும். Their age This As much as is not என்றும். Push Bill
From Zomsa They don't roll. என்றும். But , In the spirit From any Young
More Young they are என்றும். Youth Exodus Only When it becomes
What is measured ? What do we have ? And the spirit From the wall should என்றும். All "Ts "
is it Those who say
The meeting Agenda For everyone Discrimination Nether என்றும்.
" all right Friends : Today's Our meeting Purpose ; Eritrean period
Country red Star Versatile Revolutionary Our campaign General Shape
Perseverance Content well We understand. When we finish On our doorstep Distressed
Wun Historical Work Today ; tomorrow Sanel To start So that we can For me
Draught " It is " Their speech Started என்றும்.
" This red " Star " name No more The famous
Historical Our campaign We stopped him. Class Struggle Body As it is
Social ; Traditional ; Economical Political Military Page
Taina Contents They say என்றும். This National And Revolutionary Our campaign
The main Character Publicity is it என்றும்.
« Earlier When If you are lucky Organizational Structure and Work
Guide To understand As much as possible ( all of you) As you arrive
hope I will do it )» from a little duration Later « The campaign Purpose ;
This Northern period Our country and In this period Country Available
Done Ader People ; In this Location Immaterialism Dependent
from those From history Sludge London Finally Time Free Leaving
Tan ; From a gun Mouth A lot of work Side To the side Social ;
Traditional . Political Economical Construction Works Progress ;
Class The country Done Ader People Like the rest Ethiopian
Done Peasants . Our revolution . Fruit Taster Stop Only Say
Yes ; And himself Labiot Process and Strength contribution to do
is it.
« Red Star Our campaign Three Major Chapters Let them live.
Tall என்றும். One Translation For the campaign What is needed Attack
On Studies and Events To do has been என்றும். General The study and
The event It's over. Here it is. Today over here We have arrived. என்றும். Fasting What's left? Work
The campaign To preach When For this The important thing Platform While
Ready is it என்றும். coming soon one Great Conference Will be done என்றும். as well
From the council With related one Great Mitzvah Festival என்றும். Both
The one who sleeps Chapter War The field Fight Start and The destroyed
Economic Networks Back setting up it will be என்றும். Third
Translation Free In the exits And the rest Locations All Class
Our country Mzbr Geberas Activate ; Organizing and Equip
it will be என்றும். The decisive thing Organization is it என்றும். And last one Our goal
Babies Kneel Only is not என்றும். Far away Our goal In this
Earth " Building socialism " is it என்றும்.
« Friends ! Today In this Time and location What we are getting into Tall Easy
is not என்றும். tomorrow : History and Ethiopia Wide People He asks us. என்றும்.
This Because ; Twenty Year Full When organizing When you are bathing What has been
A warrior flock From here character Earth Done. We will destroy. To say Look.
Delem என்றும். 5 acres To break As we can But My dear
don't have என்றும்.
« Today Our future Dependent ; Shield Follow What happened? Oh my.
Yotawi Our army How much? And the time More Organized ;
Armed என்றும். National and Revolutionary The message knows என்றும். the house ;
property ; My comfort Without saying : fox Wells Decided With determination
Nut He fights. ; Every minute From Benallat With Teacher For you Roro Choking
It will fall. என்றும். This In Ethiopia Dear Young Children Built
Army Asking Price ; From the revolution and National one
His/her other thing No என்றும். over here Where you are staying Time Life You are not welcome.
it will be. But to think You have to In the morning Hole What is living? Father
Yotawi Our army is it " . " saying For the time being Their speech
Geta you did என்றும்.
Others Egg Me ( Met) He caught me. என்றும். Whole My body " It shook me . "
My tears too Come and I am tired. Started என்றும். In their speech From my heart
due to Note to take If I stop I have stayed. என்றும். The man
Without Note Orally When speaking Words how As it is
Send them away. Thought how They will succeed. all the time Thank you.
I am tired. என்றும். Written Speech From reading Maybe all the time Orally What if they say ?
i say என்றும். The Seven In their words When speaking Who they are By contract
appears ; It seems And My name It will wake up. என்றும். What Type Awesome
Give it up ! One Time In 1968, one minister " What if? "
You are here. person What you read Speech Leave Orally To speak if you
Did they do it ? Orally When speaking The problem is it becomes The hope More give
I sleep. I see. என்றும். black Pearl They are » Speaking What I heard
Remember I say. என்றும். That minister Tohun In Bagerhat - No என்றும்.
Conference When leading a lot Time I saw them. என்றும். all of them Speaking
Wun With great pleasure Calmness and Patience Listening cool Talent
they have என்றும். I think so. By listening is it a lot thing In short
Time Inside To learn Those who could என்றும். Human Thought to hear I'm not tired.
They are என்றும். And Who leads? Conference Total Process Collection and
For decision Ending Thought To present Their ability often Time
I wonder # / thing Organs separate To withdraw Awesome Thank you.
they have என்றும். Their thinking all the time Direct and clear is it என்றும்.
By those who give Direct and clear Analysis Economic The scholar
Tina Others Experts - they mock என்றும். Back What they say
Or What they hide thing No என்றும். Truth Fruit they do என்றும்.
I As I saw it And another Talent I don't know. என்றும். I'm tired. that
Word Their language Inside No என்றும். Work Let them have fun. If Ala
Mix ; But They work. என்றும். For the little one For the big one thing Equal closed
Jit they do என்றும். once in a while When I think In detail Issues Drowning
So that they don't remain I am afraid. என்றும். In Somali War Time Bullet When counting
I saw. ; I'm tired. not knowing ; If necessary Twenty four Time To work
Volunteer something So Without Young Leader Take it. ; All of us as a
He If we work This one Beautiful ; But Sad Nuger Where? Where Let's go.
Forget If we can has been that Thought I'm tired. என்றும். But Many of us
Work When it becomes We are jealous. N Confrontation For the deceased Disaster
Responsible To do But ! Case One Or a few People
Case Maybe Can't என்றும்.
If you are sick Their speech Continue -- «/ for Opportunity As Band
Hand Battle ; In another Hand Construction Series Conduct so far Fate
Our turn As has been என்றும். even if Where we started Purpose In this
Earth Socialist system Monday 9th Because it is Requested
Any Sacrifice We pay. என்றும்.
« This Campaign To plan and To prepare Kand Year Above
Time We are tired. Maybe. High Time and It was a struggle. Thirsty
day Campaign If there is This one . Huhu . is it என்றும். From here Earlier We will go -
Campaigns What we found habits Base Let's do it. is it Jonah's
H is it என்றும். And from this one Let's learn. என்றும். Revolution forever Unclosed
Education at home is it என்றும்.
some person Applause habit It happened. : From among
Our One person clapped their hands. All of us We applauded. என்றும். Some of them.
The word " gona" means " sides " . Applause It starts என்றும். In the forecast Place
 For appropriate Case Region Applause Okay. Maturity Wake up When I fall
Good It remains ! Ignorant Sami to be Kind is not என்றும்.
Bright Fengta : Same The usual Humility Filled with Dog
, Kara Character --- Continue " This / Eritrea " period Country red
 Star Versatile Revolutionary Campaign The planned Prepared Of course
Paoko Central Committee second Abandoned Meeting North Tegen
 Bird We are thieves. Regarding What we have given - Wesane " Seret"
 By doing is it என்றும். The decision I will mention.
 The decision Onebu என்றும். IEPACO Central Committee Both ::
 Tanga Standard Meeting The period that passed . ;
 In Eritrea period Country Water The Obiot By the one who created My name is
Condition On Based on Development Let's not rush. How do you say?
Father What I know Against Unity and Against Abyot Boy
Yes By cleaning there Through Imperialism Yes
Bed By losing Peace Warranty To be confirmed To be done ;
 Knowingly Unknowingly From the bandits With Being Or
In collaboration Ogden The wrongdoers right now But Their mistake
By realizing and With regret to the The Ebiot Neighborhood Those who return
In the making The village New Society Construction Struggle Beautiful
Full Sorry. But they are not To be done :
 East and South Ethiopia Afraid People Revolutionary
Our army Side In line with From the top Sacrifice Soma
Lian -» Rirana ; Bandits Burbora By the way In the evening
R Time Weyet With victory Sustainability By leaving Today Highly
My name is The construction Struggle As we are connected All : In Eritrea
Space Country Inside And what is there? The broad People Body For complete
Hello Support For the construction The struggle Spreading up to now
Boarsum Participation In their own words Victories On based on
From the revolutionary Our army With The arm In coordination When released
Stay. ; For humiliation When you do it When trading Those who lived Saturday
Days Done. by removing Equal The story To refresh
Haisapaoko Central Committee second Standard Stupa
Call Yes "Nulafal " means "passing by". has been என்றும்.
The man Espaçoco What he gave Decision Read it. From salt
Forgotten Later " Friends " of this Historical Campaign Purpose and Function in short
This Historical Call and Decision functional To do is it என்றும். Our work
All From bureaucracy Free something Revolutionary and Brotherly to be Ole
In the என்றும். Especially " Alu -- Nah " our relationship to the Also to the Side
To be Required என்றும். Organizational Our structure Prepared
In this Principle Foundation is it என்றும். to the List press release Before we leave
in the past over here On Question Or As ' Koyaet Kas Clear and Democrat
Siya Conversation Conduct It will be fine. " B "
For the time being Silence ; Silence it becomes என்றும். all of them See you later. Started என்றும். Often
Ours Sometimes ; Back Criticism is it But Envy us On the spot
On Face Soffit What we hear Question To ask it becomes Thought For
Give it to me. We won't. என்றும். I Sock Leave it alone. Diyas Why?
Democratic Centrality Principle From here Hidden behavior Worse Dog
th thing Without i don't think so என்றும். From our weakness due to Democracy
Witna Destroying us Centralization Only Strengthening Responsibility
Band person Or In a few People On Let's not throw it away. all the time wait
I am tired. என்றும். Responsibility About Club Shake Carrying Or Railgo ;
If we wait Also Do it. bye Fearful As to live To be surprised it becomes For the revolution
Customizable I don't think so ... my stomach. shouted என்றும். I am hungry. I think so. என்றும். In the morning
Grain I didn't taste it. என்றும். The time Gone என்றும். One Ajun Take out என்றும்.
" all right Comrade . Death No Sit down. You say " .
« 5 h Campaign ... uh ... revolutionary Campaign .. uh ... of Eritrea
period Country red Star ... I mean. Uh ... right now Time The planned ... uh ..
Or right now To be Selected Reason what What ?
Comrade Chief Chair »
The question Asked person From the beginning Hatena Angry
From Britain When we try feel like என்றும். His body too ; My hand too And his lips Yen
Move. has been என்றும். August All Shake it. Nether என்றும். in front For the face
Existing The one who is placed என்றும்.
The man Sometimes cool Speaker Only They are not என்றும். cool
Listener they are என்றும். Each person Who speaks to us? carefully
And With patience Listening Experience They said --- « Okay Comrade ,
Three .. good. Question " It is, " they said. என்றும்.
so true cool Question has been What they give Answer Carefully
To settle I am ready. என்றும். My name is Wesfa. The trigger Stopped. has been என்றும்.
why? right now ?
« As is known In Ethiopia Wide People Struggle ; In a different way
Yim Revolutionary Our army , let's stop. Sacrifice With love
Socialist countries Versatile Support ; Our revolution From defense
It is. Totty We have moved. என்றும்.
" and then as a The situation the necessary Struggle Tactics
Strategy We are changing. in a row In the country " ; Good news ;
South and west What we have raised The revolution Internal Enemies *
Foreign Invaders and Interventions All We are destroyed. என்றும்.
‹ - present Time For our revolution Action For our country Unity:
For our people Security Especially For the revolutionary Our army Fata
Loss and For our economy Cutting The only one Typical Very
Being What challenges us If there is In Eritrea The packaging Separatist
Aadhar card Organization I am
« This Mercenary Aadhar card Organization Of destruction The mission task
Barawi " Dufa" If motivated Long Time History The one who has as a
Others Problems All From the past system We received When
Of destruction The task Very Expand it In the institution Very Drunk
I'm tired. convenient As I found it. Opportunity From our revolution blow out
since is it.
« This Aadhar card Silver Organization The Atiot When they come
Class The struggle If we were to cross them Internal Our enemies Support and
Foreign Forces Help time to the Time Strengthening there
What? Size Of destruction The task Expanding Come and ; .
« Especially We In the dark Problems We are busy. Where he was
He From all over Odhroot Campana From the world international Empire › Lism
High Morality Material Help Found Our purpose as long as
Achieve Almost Where it was Season namely From three Year
in the past Second Free Designer Revolutionary War Our army
Don't be punished. Punishment Punishing The bandit They are built on them. In the past
Class The second Fat Provinces By eviction From Sudan Rehob
For With In our borders To District namely In the Sahl Oh, yeah
Raja To gather He forced it. என்றும்.
« Our country Inside In addition Every time Problems Be careful.
Let's be real. And the revolution Security Very Concern Condition On
Where it fell Season From here Dangerous Condition Urgently To leave
because Urgently Established Academic Our army You are welcome.
Rtzanougi: Experience all in all The event Reachable Arrive In Care Of
Because it was The mentioned Ayala Victories We are also divided. High Without
M ( Wayet) By paying It was sunny. : For the past two Years War
Yawn In moderation Gab As Back By resisting and Defects
By fulfilling Finally Important Bloodsucker Battle himself By order
Gadget Free Out of the way Kebeles Available And the 7 sides Likewise
Back By establishing By awakening By organizing has been என்றும்.
« Eritrea Problem Peace be upon you. Road To solve Agen
Bird Groups Insatiable that over and over Done
Their Peace Call Not accepting them Inspiring so so From the water
Say Except Peace Language For those who don't deserve it Separatist Bandits
What is required? Power Balance From showing Except other Choice
Because it doesn't exist Unchangeable Military action To be crazy We are tired. என்றும்.
We War We searched. is not We are fighting * is it என்றும்.
We What we want Hello is it : Prosperity is it என்றும்.
" to the The question I'm going to return. என்றும். why? Currently Time ? Ethiopia
Done Ader People One period The country By a bandit Animals Talk
Hello Olena ; Or Also From the body Rooms One Wounded
Fatness i have Lil It can't. In this period Country Inside Segel
Time What has been Problem Screen is not removable. Current Primary the task Lately
Gotal என்றும். As is known In others Fronts a bit Fata Nugget
We are tired. என்றும். Our strength The northern Front On To focus Mitch
Heart Suitable Condition Natural என்றும். Zaid Bare Today Highly
Structure On Available என்றும். Arati the world At the camp David Agreement
due to Highly Positive Conflict It is busy. என்றும். Iraq
Iran In war On Available என்றும். Our neighbor What happened? Sudan too
Currently Time Fata Unsatisfactory In 10 7 Problem She/It என்றும்.
« Separatist Bandits Morality Material Help Let's
Deysabkeh Where you don't get it Time is it We say We guess. என்றும். Tegen
Bird Bandits In the event Mutual each other War Headache
Chow Where it came from Where they are weak Time is it என்றும். On the contrary : Our revolution
Inside it becomes outside From any Time More Reinforced
Meze That's right. Today Whole Socialist Camp And Progressive Organizations
From our revolution Side It was written. Available என்றும். Separatist Bandits
They spat. என்றும். And Input Their land What we do Suitable
Time right now Because is it என்றும். clear " Am I ?" has been Given
Answer என்றும்.
" other Q / Q Or Comment 1?9
« I My hand Take it out. When I'm down Old Q « Q i had என்றும்.
to the Asmara Before I came in the past In Shina And By Paret Written ;
that a bit Book I read. has been என்றும். My question :; Gorilla Battle
Strategy ; When it is convenient Attack : Uncomfortable Escape ; From the place Place Looking
Moved around Danger By throwing Government Soldiers Anxiety and
To annoy so so : As said We Organized Military
Battle Strategy When we go there Nakfa On Gathered together They will stay with us.
or their massacre To invite They won't. " Is it possible ? "
has been என்றும்.
" Yes : Comrade என்றும். cool Question is it என்றும். Hey you You mentioned good
Relays First Growth Level is it என்றும். Gorilla Movement For
Jim Time In this Status To be continued Can't என்றும். necessarily to the Conche
National Army changes என்றும். Tactics The strategy Likewise
to the Conventional Tactics Strategy changes என்றும். In general
Northern Separatist Bandits right now So has Development
Level On is it Available என்றும்.
" to the First Level So that they don't return To do Ours without
Seven Effort and Political Struggle Requires என்றும். Fish From the sea If it comes out
He dies. என்றும். back To avoid entry to do Ideology Worldly ;
Political Organizational Our work reinforcement Required என்றும். Tessa
When It is necessary. To correct can i என்றும். I gave Answer Enough is it
Or is not ?"
for me Given Answer Enough Be careful. என்றும். But other Aj When leaving
i saw என்றும். Co / Story Child has been என்றும். Against - Gorilla War known
Expert is it என்றும். For the sake of Hero Like I think so. When you see it
Smile are there என்றும். My ear I am ready. என்றும்.
From the military Greetings Later " Ad " Chairman ; What I add
More Thought Olenn » Tole என்றும். Depth it has Sound என்றும்.
" all right Comrade
one more time Military Greetings என்றும். there Height On Up
Clear Greetings To be given ; The worst Ordered -- as Sham
" Friend " Chairman Exactly As you stated Any
Gorilla Movement Own Dialectical Process and Growth There is " the one "
Dead ; In a group Worked Place On Deep Battle When conducting Old
Gorilla Movement ; The army Number If we grow up The power If it is strengthened Later
necessarily one On Gathered Conventional War To carry out
It is necessary. This. If not Victory Winner Or Existence B. Lived
Can't என்றும்.
« In the rivers Between It happened. N Mutual Chair War
What happened? . Religious ; Tribal * Dangerous Corn Contradiction Only
Not Where they arrived Justice Level including It is என்றும். Shatsbia
Jabhan Deleted From the field Remove it himself Alone Representative For me
Driga Politics Military Monopoly to catch is it என்றும்.
« In isolation Bandits Between has Contradiction In this Only
Certain is not என்றும். The crow In the district and In the morning including
is it என்றும். The second ; My name is Bodybuilding ; What I did Natives
Huma Disagree என்றும். The old man ; The sea ; Sariya , Of
Nehit Barca Sahel : Dunkel Children Saying It doesn't fit. என்றும்.
Shaabi ; Front . Al-Wahda . Strange The so-called Political Shape
- Sex Of this Footprint Reflections they are என்றும். as a The truth if so Refined
Or Clear Political Alaa " Nehana " Content They don't have என்றும். Miramar
Dutt Public Line They don't have என்றும். Tribal Organizations they are என்றும்.
" To where I rose " thing Let me go back. ; Shatsbia Today to the Permanent
. Combat Strategy Tactics The strategy Changed என்றும். Shabia
Currently Time The power one On Assembled Standard War From
. Opposite other Choice don't have என்றும். This to be What could Band Face
From within The weakness due to is it. The guards Ond On Assembled
They spat. என்றும். And Input Their land What we do Suitable
Time right now Because is it என்றும். clear " Am I ?" has been Given
Answer என்றும்.
" other Q / Q Or Comment 1?9
« I My hand Take it out. When I'm down Old Q « Q i had என்றும்.
to the Asmara Before I came in the past In Shina And By Paret Written ;
that a bit Book I read. has been என்றும். My question :; Gorilla Battle
Strategy ; When it is convenient Attack : Uncomfortable Escape ; From the place Place Looking
Moved around Danger By throwing Government Soldiers Anxiety and
To annoy so so : As said We Organized Military
Battle Strategy When we go there Nakfa On Gathered together They will stay with us.
or their massacre To invite They won't. " Is it possible ? "
has been என்றும்.
" Yes : Comrade என்றும். cool Question is it என்றும். Hey you You mentioned good
Relays First Growth Level is it என்றும். Gorilla Movement For
Jim Time In this Status To be continued Can't என்றும். necessarily to the Conche
National Army changes என்றும். Tactics The strategy Likewise
to the Conventional Tactics Strategy changes என்றும். In general
Northern Separatist Bandits right now So has Development
Level On is it Available என்றும்.
" to the First Level So that they don't return To do Ours without
Seven Effort and Political Struggle Requires என்றும். Fish From the sea If it comes out
He dies. என்றும். back To avoid entry to do Ideology Worldly ;
Political Organizational Our work reinforcement Required என்றும். Tessa
When It is necessary. To correct can i என்றும். I gave Answer Enough is it
Or is not ?"
for me Given Answer Enough Be careful. என்றும். But other Aj When leaving
i saw என்றும். Co / Story Child has been என்றும். Against - Gorilla War known
Expert is it என்றும். For the sake of Hero Like I think so. When you see it
Smile are there என்றும். My ear I am ready. என்றும்.
From the military Greetings Later " Ad " Chairman ; What I add
More Thought Olenn » Tole என்றும். Depth it has Sound என்றும்.
" all right Friend =
one more time Military Greetings என்றும். there Height On Up
Clear Greetings To be given ; The worst Ordered -- as Sham
" Friend " Chairman Exactly As you stated Any
Gorilla Movement Own Dialectical Process and Growth There is " the one "
Dead ; In a group Worked Place On Deep Battle When conducting Old
Gorilla Movement ; The army Number If we grow up The power If it is strengthened Later
necessarily one On Gathered Conventional War To carry out
It is necessary. This. If not Victory Winner Or Existence B. Lived
Can't என்றும்.
« In the rivers Between It happened. N Mutual Chair War
What happened? . Religious ; Tribal * Dangerous Corn Contradiction Only
Not Where they arrived Justice Level including It is என்றும். Shatsbia
Jabhan Deleted From the field Remove it himself Alone Representative For me
Driga Politics Military Monopoly to catch is it என்றும்.
« In isolation Bandits Between has Contradiction In this Only
Certain is not என்றும். The crow In the district and In the morning including
is it என்றும். The second ; My name is Bodybuilding ; What I did Natives
Huma Disagree என்றும். The old man ; The sea ; Sariya , Of
Nehit Barca Sahel : Dunkel Children Saying It doesn't fit. என்றும்.
Shaabi ; Front . Al-Wahda . Strange The so-called Political Shape
- Sex Of this Footprint Reflections they are என்றும். as a The truth if so Refined
Or Clear Political Alaa " Nehana " Content They don't have என்றும். Miramar
Dutt Public Line They don't have என்றும். Tribal Organizations they are என்றும்.
" To where I rose " thing Let me go back. ; Shatsbia Today to the Permanent
. Combat Strategy Tactics The strategy Changed என்றும். Shabia
Currently Time The power one On Assembled Standard War From
. Opposite other Choice don't have என்றும். This to be What could Band Face
From within The weakness due to is it. The guards Ond On Assembled
With a gun Mouth Forcing Kalawaga Except The existence
It will be finished. என்றும். The guards Goodbye Permission Entered They are not என்றும். From the beginning
necessarily Kidnapped Taken Farmer Children they are என்றும். Warmth Take it.
With victory In short Time Inside We will be back. Saying In 1967 , Nat
Tell me. Call Accepted Adventurously to the Desert Those who left Ayala
Youth Today hope Cut off என்றும். Desert Life We will destroy them.
to return Do you want என்றும். These All one On - Stunned If
Be arrested. Shabia Existence # ends #
" right now The questioner Shafi'i Weakness and Strength what Newgo
that it will be என்றும். Gorilla My movement is " Strength and Strength By ten
Points To be measured Can என்றும். These are ;
Combat district Convenience ( Terrain )
The hero Moral
 Political Wake up
Logistics
The army Combativeness Competence Or Training
 device Type '
The leaders Competence
Discipline
Shelter Country Or Location ( Sanctuary )
And Public Support " They are " Measurement Point
Bohun If it is arranged Later " For each one Title Item 10 points
Giving us A hundred If we were to ; Shabia Today Where is it? Political
Military Condition In reality To guess Possible என்றும்.
« Overall : Shabia Army Morale has fallen . என்றும். Given
Wun Political Education In a friendly manner If not Except From the heart
Acceptable Without i don't think so என்றும். Managed With a gun legend
Banana Discipline is it என்றும். Public Support don't have என்றும். Today Eritrean
Done Bed People : nothing else Even Desert For those who The children Bias
Bm meat It is --- all His heart Hello. Wants என்றும்.
« The Virgin Mary Prisoners Today nothing else Type Military Training
A: They found it. என்றும். Wait. army Field End From " Vagat" Eaten War
Education at home No என்றும். Farmer Children as a Sheep They are driving. is it
For the bullet What to do என்றும். The leaders Goodbye. Tastes and Ombagene
Noch They are. என்றும். Adventurers they are = In shelter Through Shabia
Today In Sunan Mother All: don't have என்றும். Hundred The attack To overcome
Behind Preparing for it is it என்றும். In the Masaryan In logistics Shabizo #
all right is it என்றும். The organization Amazing Efficiency and February Ability
Hello என்றும்.
« The main strong The side But Shatsbia The one who chose Combat district
is it என்றும். Nakfa Nature Fortress is it என்றும். Nakfa Mountains Don't grow.
Rum என்றும். Shabia Also Even In your home Even " Fear " even when he was there.
Who Height Who Hole Without digging Yederm என்றும். Mongoose
It is Shaabia. Prisoners Once From the fortress If you leave 3 days - fighting
Experience They don't have என்றும். Firsts they are என்றும். And Tomorrow What do you call it?
Gau From Shabia My name is With Not Natural Fortress from those From
Shell Mountains and Stones With it will be என்றும். And Critical Point
Combat district Condition is it என்றும். Shabia My name is Strength is not என்றும்.
Thank you . " Military Greetings If given Later Sit down. he said என்றும்.
Bad Analysis There was no என்றும். In his profession Scholar It is என்றும்.
seven Year Full Bandits When they fight Stay Easy Experience
is not என்றும். The story of Ko Child Fame Even by bandits To
known is it என்றும். The man As usual Carefully Growing up Give
some Note Take it. has been என்றும். I didn't say it. cool Listener
They are. Any Nutsab They don't care. என்றும். Ignore Those who leave thing
No என்றும். Seeing them all the time Student It seems to me என்றும். Yes ; Revolution
Big Functional University It is என்றும். Be careful. Student Requires என்றும்.
« Thank you Comrade என்றும். In our struggle What do we pay for? Sacrifice
Pregnancy Natural Obstacles Our control Root Mother
we have என்றும். other Question Or Comment ?... Okay. Ad Shitla " .
" Suslov: -- Shitla Mas / Sha has been என்றும். Sharp face More
Imagine appears என்றும். Speaking Slow Say His words and Sentence The things
Yess is it என்றும். And the thought Sharp is it என்றும். The idea Sisley In Care Of
Tam face On It appears -- " I I will pick it up. What I want Point
Anti - propaganda Regarding " It will be " Started என்றும்.
« First Exactly As stated : Fish From the sea If it comes out
Natural Death He dies. என்றும். In another Speech Bandits
From the public Separately Hit it will be to say is it என்றும். This Easy Work
is not என்றும். What we do Propaganda From adventure and From Egypt
Nut Perfect Far away : Studied : * Paekunda By plan Working to be
should என்றும்.
This is it. period Country Problem To solve right now From what we do
Political Organizational Work Side I'm sorry. And and then Beyond
The decisive Work and Battle What we are changing Propaganda Tactics
Strategy it will be என்றும். Jarre Like " male " Scientific Device
We are armed. என்றும். But This Winner Device For whom ? Why ? How ?
is it Let's use it. What can we do ? What are we doing ? For work The village
People Majesty It is --- for equality : For peace : For prosperity :
For justice : For democracy என்றும்.
« What we do Propaganda This Good Language Analyzing
Explain should என்றும். In another Through Bandits Political
The foundation --- their position and Your purpose People - people that Maga
Flat Propaganda Work One Category is it என்றும். The hundred / biological
Light Issuer Our army Moral Construction The propaganda K
Fire Another Function is it என்றும்.
« In this period Country : Throughout Ethiopia In the world Around
What we distribute Propaganda What If By contract Separately
It should be known. என்றும். The campaign Character National and Revolutionary
Only Not the world Globally is it என்றும். Preparation : Plan : Plan *
Time Table Required என்றும். Integrity ; From adventure and
From Egypt operation Avoid Obligation I think என்றும்.
« What we do Propaganda From the national Narrowness Spirit
Far away ; From emotional I think so. Rather Analysis ; From the class Reconciliation
Rather Class War In quality Highlight Showing and Misleading
Yes, I am ." Must I think I believe. என்றும். We We came. the problem
To be confused ( and To cover Not Doubt Let's do it. In the morning
Profit last one Manna : : Here. For " Vashat" is it I think i guess என்றும்.
« Earlier When One Speaker The people Hello Wants
said என்றும். We too What we want Hello is it என்றும். But What Type
Hello ?
« The sound of the trumpet Hello is it What we want என்றும். And Done The village
People Class The enemy Knowledge The role Separately If not By the way
Away Hello to have Can't என்றும். Our propaganda ; Our struggle
All over here Point On To focus Must See you later. I believe. என்றும். Eight
I am sorry. "Zo "
as a Sama Bulb ;as a Thorn piercing Speech It's 6 .
In Care Of Reminder Minister Oh, work. Yah What did he say ? But
Think about it. correct has been என்றும். in case Any thing In theory Easy
As To be seen Dochhal என்றும். Goodbye. But other is it என்றும். It's difficult. என்றும்.
other Questioner Or Comment Or Reinforcement Thought It's over.
Rabam என்றும். to the Organizational The structure Open From our heart in the past
Huguenazeza People Security Department Head Short Thank you
Yes. To be given Asked என்றும். Colonel The sun Heard has been என்றும். Shik
He said என்றும். The cheeks They shine. என்றும். The smile He dies. என்றும். As if
(c ) Satisfied Merchant is it It seems என்றும். all of them The ear sunny
Security Nez : All of them. Unthinkable It is funny. = Angacha why?
Oh, I'm drowning. From saying Now They are proud. Were என்றும். For their lives
Yaset Yazoo concern Oderoboche Yahon ? Who? Where What? Reason
You are welcome. If he knew cool has been என்றும். Or Come on ? Show me. Taste என்றும்.
About death Osbe . Alaugogwam என்றும். why? I think ? Inevitable. Debt
It is : When it comes It is given. என்றும். Ambush To shout Thief is it என்றும். Zafan
Hello ! About death why? As a candidate i don't care என்றும். But
right now Each of us Anxiety Death I don't think so. என்றும். Big and
Terilagi Man As Appearance Desire he said Isn't it? ] Like He
I think so. Big As Appearance Disease !
: Any Action Opposite Action No, no.
Saying Abandonment With the rod Heard The speech Open --- « Eritrea
period Country red Star Versatile Revolutionary Campaign The goal Don't.
hit to do who want Forces Here City Maybe.
In our country Inside to be You can என்றும். Quietly in terms of We have to Problem
Weakness Which originates from From this is it என்றும். one People so so
The enemy From our country separate To see Ral என்றும். together We will use it. ;
We drink. : We eat. : Akeren We will lead. We will learn. என்றும்.
The thing is Complex is it என்றும். Therefore Each of you For this Historical
Work carefully You are welcome. You came. Are you? By
Season You are awake. Your area Scan You have to என்றும். Doubt
in our profession Isolated Invisible that To apply is it " No. "
Suspected " It's a change " Old Style As a slogan Let's
Did we use it? என்றும்.
Q is it We stopped. என்றும். But For real We are standing. Saying
"Update " . It is necessary to doubt. Enemies We have என்றும்.
Awake For our times Success Where we are Zebe Let's stop. என்றும். all of them
Spy to be : Guard stand out Must -- Labyotu என்றும்.
Nana Now Confusion creating The people I'm sorry.
In your It's gone. 1 Market economy Moving is it என்றும். Terror
creating The people To cover to do Do you want என்றும். We
Hamas something All Shabia Member is it Let's say என்றும். Party
From the enemy Leyton we know என்றும். The people To calm down and Campaign
our common sense Purpose Explaining Case For politics Department
I'll leave it. என்றும். By the way On In Shaabia Inside Halloween Hide
Head Central Committee Member was : Picture Rahi Who
Husband Big person coming soon His hand He gave. என்றும். a lot Knowing person
is it என்றும். The 4th of Sha'biyah Brigade South Command Commander has been என்றும்.
Politics The department so true To use worthy person is it என்றும்.
Our enemies Where they come from Road and Method a lot is it என்றும்.
Each of us Weak Side Study. Knowingly They use என்றும்.
Middle Country person Woman meat If you see Eye don't have " Multiple "
They have ... ( laughs ) Yes ... friends. : From a woman From the flesh Be careful ...
( other (laughs ...)
- Medu . Legal. Step 5 : : : The .-
Trail Kerr Vegemite --
" Oh, yeah." Neten It is For the sixth time enjoy For the hungry Meat and Drink:
Lover For those who don't use Money -- no problem Satisfactory Subsidy
in money ; In property -- each one person Weakness Tektat
White By studying For their purpose They used it. என்றும். In the evening there
I changed. The person to win Even if you can't ; Allegedly Method used
Leave Your goals Device From doing They will not return. என்றும். suitable
Drop Road Summer Draft is it என்றும். Especially His age For retirement
Arrived Her money Shasar Without a boat Show - Show is it Who
Use it. என்றும். Friends Here it is. is it என்றும். Be careful. to say We must என்றும்.
Our sorrow Bahia ; Our mother " In Guya ! ( Laughs ...)"
If you laugh Later Each other In our case Let's see. Started என்றும். One other
Wun Asking It seems --- which one Will you be ? என்றும்.
These Ingredients In which Road Wash me. I said, "Is it possible ?"
In my heart என்றும். Who himself Do you know ? Most of us About strong Gona
We is it But Brag What we are blowing ; About weakness Our side We are very proud.
We don't think. Simple ; About ourselves The truth Acceptance We are exhausted. என்றும். I don't know.
Raw Or What I didn't do Sin Live Is it ? This one Tobana
But Short Life What you contribute cool cool thing All I love
For me என்றும். Who is it Who doesn't love ? In life If you are not happy To live
The benefit From now on On Is it true ?
Picture Rahi என்றும். In memory My notebook On His name Largely
I wrote. என்றும். In Shaabia Inside Big Name has been என்றும். In the south Eritrea
The one who fought Our Revolutionary Army The fame He knows. Hero. Warrior
Vagina cool Strategist is it It is said widely It is talked about.
Sometimes And the enemy if Hero It is celebrated. என்றும். Indeed Shabia
Spit / spit ; She is tired. His Currently Time His hand Give
Internal Their supporters hope It hurts. ; Thank you. Also
It breaks. i say என்றும். how As I use it Now I saw you. என்றும்.
Without repeating He/She will not fight. என்றும். cool Opportunity ! What I offer Questions Ba
Sabe Sort I started .
Organizational The structure Open continued என்றும். Structural Open
Sometimes Boring என்றும். In half Heart has been What I'm listening to என்றும்.
Hello. Only No, it is not. என்றும். I'm tired. has been என்றும். Yerejim Meeting Problem
Here it is. It is › tiring என்றும். Slow Say Mind It increases. என்றும். Smoking
Rain The result --- is falling Going Income என்றும். Also I'm hungry. has been ' My mouth .
Cuba › Cuba to say It has begun. Fortunately Revealed It is done. என்றும்.
The last Not It's gone. என்றும். Economic Development Campaign Yes
plan Department head We were In production Service Root; Agriculture :
Government Farm : Industrial ; Speak Inside Business ; Power
Source and Water Work duty Forces : With support giver Service
Root Labor and Social Issues » Recovery setting up ; Health ;
Construction : Transportation and Urban Development duty Power
Loch என்றும். Eleven two Task force ; Eleven two Apostles !
Economic The department Head » Book Daniel In my eyes
Steal Idrege I saw it. என்றும். concern It's been a while. The stomach Yak has been என்றும்.
What he thinks thing I felt it. என்றும். in case Where was born? day has been
Cursed என்றும்.
Lunch
Abishaal Northern Kocheb
It's dark -- from the meeting. When we leave all of them Snoring
feel like என்றும். Yawning In every direction We scattered. என்றும். My head As
Old Engine When he screams i feel என்றும். to the Accommodation My house I went. In cold weather
Qazaq Water My body If you wash First Later Goenen Bed Touching other
I am exhausted. thing There was no என்றும். My smell All I hate it. என்றும். Sold
My body என்றும். Let it blow. The one who was there Cold Oh. a bit Spirit
Refresh it. என்றும். Moon Where you can't see Mishago is it என்றும். Northern Star
If you call Sky On Fear Like She is seen. என்றும். Giant black Shadow
S Like Standing Palms Inside I'm looking. has been
I saw her. என்றும். to the My car I want to enter. Because Hello, In Tregiorgis Call me.
" Where?" You are going. " Is that it ?" I said. என்றும்.
" From here" Marathon Meeting Later Where? I am going. Do you think so ?
straight ahead to the Shelter My site is it என்றும். " I'm tired, " I said. #
« Oh You Journalists Yes, there is. He laughed. என்றும்.
« What " Did we lose ?" I said. என்றும்.
« Shelter Station Did you eat ? The food. Also What To be called
Honor N Also What You should say it.
« Food For work »
one more time The Kanjetu Laughed. : « - n the house N "Oh. "
i have J The *‹ Jackal right now the house together Let's go »
" other Time right now Existence " I'm tired, " I said. என்றும்.
We are talking. is it என்றும். me either I found it. I want it. என்றும். For the worker so true
He is thirsty. என்றும். cool Whiskey i have என்றும். Journalists Sometimes This
This one You don't hate. என்றும். Rumor Areca Do you love me?
6 here On " I said, ' Baru '." என்றும். When I think about it so true cool M
Drink Oa T As much as has been My dear. Drought As it hit Land Taken
Thank you. As much as As You are welcome. என்றும். That Famous . T
I wanted. என்றும். The fatigue Bande Leave me alone. : Shibede For you to see.
" what else What Like " Will it get worse ? " I asked him. என்றும்.
" Woman " Laughed. Next « Food On But Fools You are
They say என்றும். But News You are welcome. Happy " I don't have it, " he said . என்றும்.
" why ?" ]
« Man person It doesn't smell. என்றும். Dry is it என்றும். Socialism About Stati
Sik is not என்றும். And its origin it becomes Destination S person La Co
Sun Yazoo Product Grow up ; This As much as Land It was plowed. ; This
As much as People I am organized. ; This As much as People From ignorance Get rid of it.
etc ... Ohaz Only is it என்றும். Of course Journalists Record to have
They deserve it. என்றும். But Record to show Because person You forget. ;
The " colds" You will be என்றும். What do you offer? News All person
, person Smell Must என்றும். Always What do you mean? Agitation All
Generality Character It attacks. என்றும். Boring is it.
took off You are welcome. என்றும். Truth Mila: - From the front
It was given. You have to to say Also Fact is it என்றும். Come in.
« What we offer News All person person To smell If necessary
Accused Child On Faith have ; In his profession Trained Journalist
Nouns in abundance " We need them ," I said. to the The car I entered. என்றும்.
From the eye Previous Cycle Young The makers From the car Back
They are sitting. என்றும். Others The makers Full consist of other Accompaniment Car
Wake up Behind It's raining. என்றும். Christmas From my arrival Her car She flew. என்றும்.
Speed It will be dropped. is it என்றும். My breath Get out. I caught it. என்றும். In green ‹
Yellow : red Lights ‹ Red Stars and Arches The one who is scattered
« Combishtato » Chinese City It seemed என்றும். red Lights Looking
We are tired. has been We fly. என்றும். From the car Danger Hide us. But What
Lat Bullet We are finding Prophet ; there Speed When we fly என்றும். Continued
" Meanwhile, realistic " thing On based Propaganda and Agitation
To be held If necessary Work Composition Required என்றும். We Dog
Bridge We will not sleep. என்றும். Information To have should என்றும். Infor
Machine To be found What can Also From the public Security ; From the forest
Royal Parts ‹ from outside Case From the like is it என்றும். Enough Information
To be found where it can Road Without changing Operation Composition Say
Create ; General Agitation is it What are you doing? to say Work
Man It doesn't work. From what works Edge Standing Who criticizes them? Pay Yes
"Zal ," I said.
" cool Thought is it. right now We will do it ...»
" right now " Are you tired ?" I asked. ; I'm surprised. என்றும். Rested
End Christmas due to feel like என்றும். The power Source What If
Secret It will be me. Wow என்றும்.
« What Let it be done. You say Is it Eritrean ? Problem Hustle Hurry up.
Roy has become # From Eritrea Problem With When I live Here it is. Ten A " T
I'm tired. என்றும். From Obiotu In the open For seven Year Half In this period
Country Operation Commander I was there. Do you know ?... Now Also
In this Politics Work Three Year It could happen to me. It is » Mast : Agent
Nawan as a Abd Flying In the long run If you breathe Later : " right now
But really About Eritrea Problem Solution Thinking and Worry
- I'm bored. என்றும். My neck Until arrived I'm being pushed away. is it. i have என்றும்.
National Bad We passed. ; In the revolution Square to the On
If we travel Later , brand new World (3 years) Banda ) Myjahjah We arrived.
has been என்றும். The road Continue ! In Nyala Hotel Let's do it. to the Europe
Tum : And the road as a Shadow Wolf While It disappears < '
« Oh my God Now The problem Solution Near " It is "
« Don't worry. in the past if cool is it என்றும். Problem Solution
Salas I am relieved. Relief I think Where to rest Time " stood still" La You are welcome.
Jehu I think so. fourty two Year I am done. என்றும். In this Fast Revolution
fourty two Year What happened? person Heart Come on. kind Running
Can You say "It's 8" and it's He laughed. என்றும். Clean laugh has been என்றும்.
" me either Add it. about Yes.
" Are you married ? " " I am ," I said. என்றும்.
« Fiance i have W
" cool New The song You will feed us ...»
« This Campaign If you don't come If only coming soon To marry Nether ...»
« Don't worry. The campaign To N That
Driver Wow M Wow Soon It will be released. என்றும். By design Wisely From:
« But " What ?" I said.
« Things With great effort In Exodus to have "Let's go ," he said. ;
In the Road Back give back Started என்றும். to the threads Rosa Hui
Cross ) Cinema at home What it takes Road If it is bent Later ;
« In this period Country Permanent Terror to live who want People are there என்றும்.
Here Northern Location For the past Orat hundred Ages War Not
Content Time No என்றும். And This Condition a lot People Do it.
Vegetables Skeptics They ordered them. என்றும். Still During the campaign For
use Spread it. Waiting They will not disappear. என்றும். For this is it calm
to say We must What I say என்றும். This Az : Problem Complex is it என்றும்.
« And Also From the middle Country From some
Full Solution with From Because they think , Chop
creating Tell us. More Complex They do it. என்றும். other Problem
Let's not create is it I am afraid. என்றும். (of history )
at home We have arrived. Amer History Smell Kind is not என்றும்.
Chickens
Door Open As has been Waiting என்றும். War .
The door On They stopped # where they came from. Speed Shou Say log on என்றும். Big
Courtyard is it என்றும். By light Sheaf Sun It seemed என்றும்.
« Around Turban is it " I brought you ," he said. என்றும்.
« Long Road is it "
Let's accept. I think It is » Asen என்றும்.
The cold Air I was moved. என்றும். The yard With flowers Plant
Filled appears என்றும். Good I am a monk. Occupied Don't plant it. is it
Child Do you like it? I think so.
5 flower Planting and To crack My hobby is it என்றும். Sometimes
a bit Fata I found it. Among them Sit down. Because Happy " I say "
The flowers Looking என்றும்.
" what else ?"
« Another My hobby You're welcome. stew to make is it என்றும். Evening
why?
Meles Sloth My clothes I am wearing it. stew to make :
It's bad. Come on, It amuses me. hang on one day I worked. I will feed you »
" hope i do என்றும். This Country Food Without Pasta No
"Oh ," I said. என்றும்.
Who He said to them, "Young man !" they are என்றும். Shiroa
Leave it alone. M is it என்றும். red Soup Chicken stew On But No
Boom. Tomato Banat On they increase Again. From butter Oil is it
# Chicken of your choice In oil Do you see it ? In the sauce. I E
I will. என்றும். " You'll see ," I said. என்றும்.
go to I want
Zen to the at home We entered. We loved it. Bath at home
has been Bath The house show me என்றும். My face I washed myself. Ann
Grumpy When I return Book Daniel : Colonel The story
Child : Colonel With the rod I heard. Others The teacher Watch "!
People Stranger Accommodation Pay Wow
United Kingdom
Book Make them laugh. has been என்றும். in case Don't Reply
Clothes What is created? Joke Speaking.
What makes them laugh? .all the time About the partners Kingdoms He's joking.
one In one Hello I told them. என்றும். All « Seco » whiskeys in the snow
They are holding என்றும். Thirst Burn me. Stranger the house Sometimes Mild House
Government feel like என்றும். To step on Sad red Persian
Carpet ; Large . blue " Shaz " : From Crystal
made Vandeleur Light என்றும். Half Glass % Echo " Whiskey
in the snow Buy to the Solomon In Tregiorgis Close I said. :
« The stranger Which "Is it ?" I said. என்றும். If there is Colonel The story Child
other Gangster Looks like person No என்றும்.
« It will come என்றும். My friend Buy If I don't come He told me. is it The
Guyu ....»
« Male Or Woman ?
« Woman " .
« Now Peaceful Life " Has it started ?"
« Picture ? Like Satan Fast is it என்றும். You're amazing. என்றும். Kind
Mom Brave is it என்றும். From the past Since is it What I know என்றும். Close it. The
Throw Satan If there is He is it என்றும். Soon " He's angry, " I said. என்றும்.
" all right Hamas is it Bye !
" Don't you think so? " Hamas so-called All Soon Angry
Cooling ; What you hear Face In front Speaking We think so. என்றும்.
as a He is not என்றும். Of the many Heart to know It's difficult. ;
Especially right now என்றும். First As I told you Most Doubtful
It has become » as I have Three Youth From outside Follow me. Enter என்றும்.
I know them. ; " I did it on TV * Interview "
I will. என்றும். Surgery When From the desert Returned Shaabian Front Father
Loch they are என்றும். When Did I " interview " them ?
Year Before ? One Year Half a day !... I forgot. என்றும். thing
to forget I have started. என்றும். thing to forget For a journalist Bad sign
is it. Age Increasing When he goes List thing Being forgotten Overall
thing Only Remembering goes I say ! But ; Fortunately . The rich
Name and Work I have not forgotten. என்றும். Justice Barhe ( son) Berhe ) of the front
Halwa Saura Main Writer Of this Organization Central Committee Member
has been என்றும். Height Long Without Look Good Young is it என்றும். Seed
Boy Halqam Likewise Front Politics Education at home Derek
Tar has been என்றும். Medium Height has ; Ask. : Thin Young
is it என்றும். eye Shy feel like என்றும். Who? sunny Say I don't see. என்றும். Prince
Good morning Said Thin I am tired. Smart is it என்றும். Game laugh Yabe
It's cold. Prince Good morning Shabia Halwa Saura Leader Member has been என்றும்.
All three Loud The steps is it They seem to When you see them என்றும். cold
Nouns were They don't seem to. D Because Barren What feel like ?
The hungry From people Different Special Creature Like By eye My conscience
why? As you see me I don't understand. என்றும். They are They didn't forget me. என்றும்.
All three Hand Greetings I gave them. என்றும். Blown away as a Stay
People We hugged. என்றும்.
" You are getting to know each other. " "Measure ?" he said. Solomon என்றும்.
" so true But ; On TV Interview " I have done them, " he said.
Kutna to the Three Meles I think " I'm sorry I bothered you ." hope Ader
Am I lying ?" I said. என்றும்.
" cool " It was, " he said. Justice ; The smile Happy says என்றும்.
« Most What you said You You were But cool Pro
Gram " It was ," I said. என்றும்.
« Celebrities " He made us, " he said. Seed Boy Leader என்றும்.
" Our country" You shook it. " It was ," I told them. என்றும்.
" right now But Illustration Barahi Fame It confuses us. என்றும். We past ;
Old History " We are done, " he said. Prince Good morning என்றும். Hot He said it. என்றும்.
Justice Barham Hot has feel like என்றும். Before they came in the past
When you are ready were They seem to என்றும். Colonel The story Child Come and
They were confused. என்றும்.
« Ahsa Mr. TV » I have Book Daniel என்றும். you are beautiful
The ones and the ones From the Colonel The story With to be I want has been ; When they fight were
People What As they say To hear என்றும். War Sometimes so funny
is it !" .
" Hi Mr. Economy I said. என்றும்.
« What Rumor " Is there ?" I said. என்றும்.
Electric Light Where he/she rested The bald one It sparkles.
And the glasses. Light Back It shines. என்றும். Small The eyes Stop it.
Darkness என்றும். Trick Those who work Those who see They seem to என்றும்.
« together We have seen it. என்றும். My name is Inside " You know, " I said.
« From you Journalists Okay. The turn People More knows »
Yes, there is. Ironical We laughed. Leave. என்றும். necessarily Laughing is it It seems
When laughing என்றும். When laughing His body All along with It is moving. என்றும்.
" How ?" I asked. என்றும்.
« Man Mouth On Microphone Dear you ; What Do you think ?
Add it. More Thought Do you have it ? other What You know.
What ? and Also Human Thought You are welcome. Your own Thought Asma
Thank you. To provide என்றும். What do you give? Thought Even Exactly if you
Approach cool has been என்றும். What you touched Thought All You are spoiled. என்றும். Journal
To be So Maybe " Far away !" he said. என்றும்.
Same Tlemedyo ; a lot People By journalists On To be praised
Ruth Hiss has been என்றும். estimate I didn't give it to him. என்றும். one Word why? Leave
Wash me. Saying Snoring Angry People They are full. என்றும்.
Poetry , And insults it becomes Compliment ; Accepted As it resonates Beer
at home Song Journalists look at When Stay away. Maybe ! My father
Die ! Sometimes When I think about it Journalist Being Or Mbale Annoy
I am tired. என்றும். What they said Back Resonant Kill Echo !... Washo ]
Do it. Bye ! Drink ! We won't say it. thing No, our services as a
Salt Wanted ; Right there Right Also Haunted Stepped on how
It will happen ! What? Type Life ! What a life ! Doesn't drink ; Unwillingly
It is annoying. But ! From my whiskey I am tired.
" You are angry. " "Right ?"
" In fact, " .
« You With Thrown away Where To be reached ? What you hate ? person
Soil - clay You are afraid. are there ...
" I wish we could, " I said. என்றும்.
« Powerful Device Take it. how Don't you think so ?
Know it. is it Aengiko Authority By you Hand " It is ," I said . என்றும். Sometimes
By word Guess. use To do common Behavior is it என்றும். Continued ;
« About today Meeting What " Do you think so ? " He asked me. என்றும்.
I did not hesitate « Educational has been என்றும். In front of us On Done
The day Problem right now clearly " I see ," I said. என்றும்.
« Really ? What? Like you clear As What do you think ? Stupid.
i am " I think so ," he said. என்றும். By diplomats Language Stupid Are you To say
is it என்றும். In Ethiopia Embassies and In the United Kingdoms
Organization For many Time It worked. என்றும். No, it's not. Handling Beautiful
Wall என்றும். Hand Inspire and Established Yes called Studied is it என்றும். Must
In the same way as a The air As the case may be It changes. என்றும். Cloud Shown
If ; Cabot : Rain Shoes ;Yang Clothes : Umbrella Not
season thing No என்றும். the house I arrived. I do not know என்றும். But person the house When he leaves
Burlay The shoes Without taking off If he dies It does not enter. It is called From one
two Time The office by chance I am going. என்றும். Hospital Surgery Dependent
Class Thanks Throw it ! Cijara Ash Or Coffee The office Inside
quarrel If there is From the side Side The rest The hair Get up. She stands. என்றும்.
Work His friends To annoy him. When you want The office it becomes saying Went.
The table Or The carpet On Sijara They smell. என்றும். Then Roof
It beats. When he screams It will be used. Sometimes Human Work When it swells
Lazarus It is one. Work To correct Or To be able to Given
If For the one who came All " Here you go. " Of this kind Work Look.
Leave. என்றும். Good luck As Chili pepper Box " I will stay ," he said. Loses என்றும்.
But professional is it என்றும்.
" Let me come closer. " Thanks Thank you. double Double is it என்றும்.
and you About the meeting What " Did you hear ?" I asked. I asked him. என்றும்.
" you see " Friend ," he said. "I am " Book Aadhar card is it But Country
It is sold. What do you think? No. Aadhar card If they tell me Also Death don't have E »
« This What " Did you bring it ?!" I said. என்றும்.
" hang on But Comrade ; Oh my. Comrade " I'm telling you ! " Come on.
Tawi The joke get rid of He did it to me. ; Twenty Year Root Sad Lived
Problem on the campaign It will not be released. என்றும். Eritrean Problem Internal Problem
Only is not என்றும். By the way Through Unrelenting Diplomatic Effort ;
Inside Also Basic Economic Construction ; Political Work and
Understanding Asking By design Wisely Commanding Work is it என்றும்.
Joke is not என்றும். Band Season ; Land Work Campaign Beard
Bosch cool is it. But habit As Inevitably Threatens என்றும். Eritrean
Problem Easy is not ; Complex is it என்றும்.
« This Old Problem on the campaign We will solve. We say When we fight
Now Others Problems We are creating is it 4509 heavy Cargo
Cars ; 250 Shelto , 200 of their comments to the north turn on
From the economy Reply What to say Is it ? In short The economy It has been said.
to say is it என்றும். Also right now Autumn Time that Don't forget. Bread
From the store ; Grain From the market If it disappears I'm not surprised. என்றும்.
" What we have " Investment Money over here We brought it. When we drink What Who
Yes Do you think so ? In short Development Work It will be killed. என்றும். Development When it is blocked
right now has Work fish Army Number Increases என்றும். And What
Will it be work ? fish Army holding Socialism build up how
Possible for me clear is not என்றும். This Campaign The one who touches a lot
thing " It is " Speech Like He did it for me. என்றும்.
Rather right now I'm angry. " The meeting " On What You 're welcome !
So You say You don't speak. Who was it ? Are you confused ? The stage To anyone
Open has been என்றும். why? Honest " We won't !" I said. என்றும்.
" Are you kidding? " " Let me tell you !" I said. என்றும்.
" No ! Just kidding. " is not என்றும். My name is Miren. is it என்றும். Right It's 1 of them .
You such as Scholars Expected and Required thing If there is Transparency and
Honesty is it என்றும். And the man If they are They were From what they do
People What are you waiting for? This is it. is it # Clarity ; Honesty என்றும்.
« The revolution let it be Any Work A few People Movement
 Or responsibility is not என்றும். My revolution Or My country that All
 Equal Responsibility and Obligation Must என்றும். no one From another Less Ethiopia
Piyawi is not My country ; My revolution As long as Until No. No .... listen to me.
But ...! It's burning . Where ? This United Kingdoms Shenggo
No ... Scholars sunny saying If you don't participate ... oh ... Asia
So If not how Who will it be ? they are Responsible Work
On What are you talking about ? Only Not enough. என்றும். Participate Required என்றும். Bagger
Case From the side Sit down. I don't understand. Saying Like Pilate, he struck.
quarrel It's not possible ... and Friend Eritrean Problem Hey you As you say
What? No, it is not. என்றும். In fact He was in no hurry. Mm. Eight Year problem
run To make sick Experience. Our country. economy In the problem Advice
Reason Bleeding is it என்றும். That country Throat Choking is it என்றும். Until we die
We don't wait. என்றும். Paid Sacrifice Paid The solution
Presence I need it. என்றும். From war other Language From those who don't speak Bandits
With From war Language other Contrast No need ... Peace. Price
Yim is it என்றும். That Blood Price Payable People is it என்றும். Blood
Price To pay Who are you? Children are Nation really lucky you
"It is ..." I said. When we fight : Solomon In Tregiorgis Come and see.
« What is it " What are you arguing about ? " We asked. என்றும்.
We consulted. It seems Both of us Together ; " nothing else "
We said so.
" Aren't you surprised ?" he said. By hand to the Colonel Ga Ricona
Three The hungry Pointing at us என்றும். Hot Without Conversation They are holding என்றும்.
All three to the On Don't touch it. Colonel Qatar Look.
has been என்றும். For Demera Standing Long We lost. Apparently Yigal என்றும். Tell me.
Go away thing What If Both of us We did not enter. என்றும்.
" Aren't you surprised ?" he said . Again « yesterday By gun When you are lying down
The south were People Today Together Drinking When playing To see Indeed
Nut It's amazing. என்றும். Justice Boy Barhe From the forest Asmara Until
The country that exists . When shaking was is it என்றும். at the time a lot People
He is tied up. என்றும். He has been whipped. : He killed. என்றும். a lot He has warned us. என்றும். Seed
Boy Leader Front Politics Education at home Director As
By giving Analysis a lot Young people to the Desert Covered person
is it என்றும். Front Dark Oh my. Commissar has been : Prince Write
In the morning Gorilla Tactical Trained Shabia Leader Fedayeen
has been என்றும். Colonel The story From them With Uncontested Place No என்றும்.
" over here City Inside Our glasses father The story Without it
If only This is it. Liquor In a jar Let's drink. has been is it What they say என்றும். Woman
Days Disciple Where they are held Time sand Lost Bottled water
Glass Factory Work Straight Say has been என்றும். He has been two
Machine gun holding Grana right Being beaten sand What is pressing? என்றும்.
Him To kill Those who didn't Experiment No என்றும். really Of course
some Disaster Arrived even if But Like Ethiopia Revolution
Stomach Wide Ebiot Without i don't think so என்றும். once in a while When I think about it Gentlemen
We are Oh ? I said. Myself I ask if Later ; To me Turn
He said: * . « Thank you.; In this On why? one cool Program Don't do it.
Ramko: i have என்றும்.
" cool Thought is it என்றும். Your hand You gave it. ; They will whip you. ;
It will torment you. ; They will kill you. While Shabia What are you talking about?
Propaganda To break " It helps, " I said. என்றும். Revolution and The wide one H
Close Merciful they are that Title I saw you. என்றும்.
« But If they don't feel comfortable is it But These People Who sleeps with us?
Do you think so ? I I don't trust them. என்றும். Yesterday Siwonna When we bleed
Old People Today Back Land We are standing. : The cabriolet Side
We are lined up. In order " I don't understand, " he said . Book Daniel The bald one
In the Arab world Sweeping என்றும்.
Solomon In thought Inspired by « believing Except other What Choice
Is there ? We don't believe them. From Thinking We got up. Bad Decision
On catch up We can't. என்றும். necessarily Stomach Wide to be Required என்றும்.
Each other In our case Trustworthy thing Time takes என்றும். But Dead
Kerr We must என்றும். one day Our children We trust. to live Can you
it will be என்றும். To there What does it take? Hard work Road open up
Ours Instead is it என்றும். But Let's not trust each other. What do they do? Foreign
.. Powers " Are there " Later Thinking " Eritrea " Problem The foot
Here let it be But The head Outside is it என்றும். Historical getting started
Historical Perfect " There will be ," he said. என்றும்.
The thing is " Because I don't understand , what? " you mean " Is that it ?" I asked. I asked him. என்றும்.
Solomon Stick In Care Of Eritrea To speak They don't get bored. என்றும். Time
If found About Eritrea When talking End He/She will stay overnight. " Look, " he said .
Started " Eritrea " For 69 years In Italian colony State Root hang on
She said, " Then in the past Over the past 400 years War Auda
Without being Where she lived Era No என்றும். Italy In the second the world
War When you lose Eritrea In England Management She fell into the roots. என்றும்.
And The new Political Drama has begun. என்றும். England Waiting Who
Exploded Bomb In Eritrea Earth Etymba is it " They came out ..." he said. என்றும்.
All of us Close : * Close We said. என்றும். Solomon To speak Say
Speaking person is not என்றும். If he says Because he says : thing The Kanjetu
Because it speaks Listener It seems என்றும்.
And Continued - :: " Eritran Regarding England two
Objectives 8 nights என்றும். One Her purpose Eritrea as much as possible Size
From her administration Root Keep When ; This If not possible : The second
Her purpose The north and The West Lowland Country : Charity including ;
colony Her kingdom If she is From Sudan With Mix it up. to buy has been என்றும். Who
This Objectives Base By doing conditions Facilitation J
Merech என்றும். Political And the methods She changed. என்றும்.
" the first Political Strategy : Ethiopia For the time being
Eritrea at all To manage You can't. Do it. For the world
show up has been என்றும். This To do " great " Eritrea »
Political Design She took it out. என்றும். Design : Tigrayan From Al-Wahha Reply
From Ethiopia By separating From Eritrea With Mixed Holding has been என்றும்.
This It was " the great Eritrea » Awareness என்றும். England This Her purpose
What makes her happy? Device She didn't lose. " In the Sahle. " Trinity Root
Government What was taken from me? Throne to the Sabagadis Root Government
I will answer . that Desire was Jazz band Heard
Asmara called Who? Because it was " Great " Eritrea »
To dream Report She inspired me. என்றும். The TPLF War Opened . Tree -
Rem Isaiah Afewerki Woyane Those who promote This is it. A
Lama is it. Ethiopia Eritrea To manage You can't. that
Doubt In progress Because he went England What she thought For the time being Wrong
If she has Apparently Appeared என்றும்.
" let it be But ; In the same way Season ; " Ethiopia Or Death »
that To dream lift ; Association Unity Power Strengthening
By going On has been என்றும். Most of them Unity Association Founders and
Members Eritrea The highlands Class Even if they are other By the Father
The first one Christians Were என்றும். England Explain. thing She did. என்றும்.
Islamic Religion followers those The valley Country
Natives By collecting Rabbit Al Islamia called Political
Team To be established From doing Above ; In Eritrea Italian
Official Language that Even No more Tigrinya Arabic
Only Official Language as To work on them She did. என்றும். Divided
For you buy now Policy Base Caught என்றும். first Time In Eritrea Po
For the sake of Tika Platform On Three Sent Positions Happened என்றும். They too
first ; Great Eritrea that side Eritrea For Eritreans
that position Caught : second ; Rabbit Al Islamia Eritrea
In England Management Root Stay She has that position When -
Sad : Third Association Wake up. Also " Ethiopia" Or Death »
with The purpose Be strong. என்றும்.
« Unreconcilable Political ; Ethnic : Language and Religious like
Doors Eritrean Separation Condition Completed என்றும். English Firstborn
Child Born என்றும். The situation In Eritrea Earth Decided It's gone. என்றும்.
red The sea « Arabian Lake » to do Old Purpose have
Arabic Kingdoms and ; This is it. Oil and Merchandise Goods To die
For the passage Strategic Kella what happened Sea For their own benefit In order :
Still it becomes in the future In their control Root to keep What you want
Powerful Kingdoms In the matter : In the meantime Indirectly Road
Their hands hand in Since you started : The problem Expanding World - global
Character Holding Went என்றும். The thing tail Here Even The head Outside
went out என்றும். Eritrean History ; Especially In Arabic countries : Wasn't there
Shape : Content and Translation Giving it ; outside Forces Hand
Political The spindle Let it go. Started என்றும்.
" let it be But Existing Qariq . at last Historical The verdict
He did. என்றும். Unity Association Purpose In victory went out என்றும். Eritrea
From mother Her country With In the Federation Combinations என்றும். however ; The thing is In this
It didn't stop. என்றும். England For her benefit When you say In Eritrea Earth Grave
She left. Bomb Slow While Explode Started என்றும். By authority : In the morning
Fat By appointment They snored. some Tell me. Natives; Federation
Legal Spirit Exactly Work On I'm not used to it. Saying Inside
Inside us Shake They are laughing. : Eritrean Case one more time Together
Kingdoms To suffer Effort do Started என்றும். Tell us. Come on.
Fabet What drives them? What helps them countries They didn't lose. என்றும். Arab
Countries : In the name of Egypt Ni For this Ready-made Were என்றும். Abay
From the source red The sea The Khanate I control Those who Old Fish
in practice To be translated Can Eritrea Earth and People of
Ramada Stone By doing If they know என்றும். at the time
was Ethiopian The government Because of his stupidity Narrowly Measure
Cut By himself/herself In the country On Stick From accepting Less Role I didn't.
Wotem has been It's too bad. He said * " Ethiopia You found it. : And death
You know, those who say "1" : Eritrea For Eritreans Saying For the sake of
Mother Their urine Wait. Defend. Those who were some Personal
The boys Choosing Key Goats On Appoint them. Started என்றும். One
Nut Association Members Their heads The door என்றும்.
« Federation destroyed Eritrea Full on the whole From Ethiopia With
To unite if done Later " Association " "Shwātī " or
Called " Haraka " Inside Inside us It will take place. was Movement
clear happening came என்றும். This Movement Basically By law We will defend.
In the words : By authority And In use Smell If you are bored some People
Leading has been என்றும். Haraka Or Eritrea Liberation Movement
Founded as a Ibrahim Skill and Father-in-law Woldema
Riyam What do you think? Previous Rabbit Al-Islamia Founders
Were என்றும். In 1958 , the front Or Urethral Liberation
Front It was founded. In the jungle In Haraka Between Authority Contradiction
Get up. Haraka. Hit : The existence Finally Time It's over.
The beginning Violence Bullet In 1961, Edris Awate It's gone.
Kosach என்றும். In this Idris Edom ; Usman You coughed. In my mind ; Abdullah
Idris ; Denai ; Omar Order : Abdul Karim Muhammad :
Ali Zumarona Child Kahsai Based on Front In the valley
Country His supremacy If it holds Later ; Eritrean People Alone Representative
I i am : Eritrea Arab she is Saying ; The tail over here ;
His head By the Arabs Country As ; Eritrea In five Continued
Come on. By paying From within From outside Political W hospital
Storm Create Started என்றும். Muhammad Denai In Barca . Omar
Order In the summer : Abdul Karim Muhammad In the Sanhedrin ; Ali
Umaro By Maria Red And By Maria Sun : Child Kahsai
In the highlands Country line up என்றும். From their ranks to see As expected
Change Front ninety Twenty Barkana Asurata Natives Eaten
This is true. Where they are held And the mouth As Available என்றும். Therefore Front Inside
Tawi The unity holding To stay could not என்றும்.
" Why ? Some Observers As they say Inside From
Fafelun Condition What brought it? Ideology Worldly Contradiction Not , * Er
Tran People Represents What ? Islam Or Christian ?
Thick Or Dangerous ? Dangerous? if so which one What is a tribe ? Authority
Question has been என்றும். Time Gaps Or Divisive Era Start
I'm sorry. என்றும். In England The one who is planted Bomb The work Working has been என்றும்.
« In front of the Take it. Dominance Those who have Barkana Asaur
Natives The rest Chasing Hit it. Started என்றும். Salah Sabe
From authority He was fired. என்றும். Because of this . Parade Nadi Said
Heroes Team ; Public Haley Said Maria's Red
Natives Team and Ubel Said Barca Natives one
Wing : Hello. Sabe through Shabia The said Front
Created f ) Ethiopia Come on. People Revolution From 1966 to
Yes. Each other In
By: Henao Yoav Abi inheritance War In Eritrea
« In 1966 , the beggars From the government With Reconciling
some Elders Selected Sent என்றும். Front Tea
Yes. 16 kilometers from Asmara Meter Rat On Be available has been என்றும். Ten
Lead Local People In peace Negotiation To participate First
Moon contribution to do Saying Hedo To see Opened
Early என்றும். The government and The poor To reconcile Those who went Elder
The lions Jabhanna Vaabian Reconcile Be like. என்றும். Like
Chum Right there to the Desert Kobalo என்றும்.
She left. Bomb Slow While Explode Started என்றும். By authority : In the morning
Fat By appointment They snored. some Tell me. Natives; Federation
Legal Spirit Exactly Work On I'm not used to it. Saying Inside
Inside us Shake They are laughing. : Eritrean Case one more time Together
Kingdoms To suffer Effort do Started என்றும். Tell us. Come on.
Fabet What drives them? What helps them countries They didn't lose. என்றும். Arab
Countries : In the name of Egypt Ni For this Ready-made Were என்றும். Abay
From the source red The sea The Khanate I control Those who Old Fish
in practice To be translated Can Eritrea Earth and People of
Ramada Stone By doing If they know என்றும். at the time
was Ethiopian The government Because of his stupidity Narrowly Measure
Cut By himself/herself In the country On Stick From accepting Less Role I didn't.
Wotem has been It's too bad. He said * " Ethiopia You found it. : And death
You know, those who say "1" : Eritrea For Eritreans Saying For the sake of
Mother Their urine Wait. Defend. Those who were some Personal
The boys Choosing Key Goats On Appoint them. Started என்றும். One
Nut Association Members Their heads The door என்றும்.
« Federation destroyed Eritrea Full on the whole From Ethiopia With
To unite if done Later " Association " "Shwātī " or
Called " Haraka " Inside Inside us It will take place. was Movement
clear happening came என்றும். This Movement Basically By law We will defend.
In the words : By authority And In use Smell If you are bored some People
Leading has been என்றும். Haraka Or Eritrea Liberation Movement
Founded as a Ibrahim Skill and Father-in-law Woldema
Riyam What do you think? Previous Rabbit Al-Islamia Founders
Were என்றும். In 1958 , the front Or Urethral Liberation
Front It was founded. In the jungle In Haraka Between Authority Contradiction
Get up. Haraka. Hit : The existence Finally Time It's over.
The beginning Violence Bullet In 1961, Edris Awate It's gone.
Kosach என்றும். In this Idris Edom ; Usman You coughed. In my mind ; Abdullah
Idris ; Denai ; Omar Order : Abdul Karim Muhammad :
Ali Zumarona Child Kahsai Based on Front In the valley
Country His supremacy If it holds Later ; Eritrean People Alone Representative
I i am : Eritrea Arab she is Saying ; The tail over here ;
His head By the Arabs Country As ; Eritrea In five Continued
Come on. By paying From within From outside Political W hospital
Storm Create Started என்றும். Muhammad Denai In Barca . Omar
Order In the summer : Abdul Karim Muhammad In the Sanhedrin ; Ali
Umaro By Maria Red And By Maria Sun : Child Kahsai
In the highlands Country line up என்றும். From their ranks to see As expected
Change Front ninety Twenty Barkana Asurata Natives Eaten
This is true. Where they are held And the mouth As Available என்றும். Therefore Front Inside
Tawi The unity holding To stay could not என்றும்.
" Why ? Some Observers As they say Inside From
Fafelun Condition What brought it? Ideology Worldly Contradiction Not , * Er
Tran People Represents What ? Islam Or Christian ?
Thick Or Dangerous ? Dangerous? if so which one What is a tribe ? Authority
Question has been என்றும். Time Gaps Or Divisive Era Start
I'm sorry. என்றும். In England The one who is planted Bomb The work Working has been என்றும்.
« In front of the Take it. Dominance Those who have Barkana Asaur
Natives The rest Chasing Hit it. Started என்றும். Salah Sabe
From authority He was fired. என்றும். Because of this . Parade Nadi Said
Heroes Team ; Public Haley Said Maria's Red
Natives Team and Ubel Said Barca Natives one
Wing : Hello. Sabe through Shabia The said Front
Created f ) Ethiopia Come on. People Revolution From 1966 to
Yes. Each other In
By: Henao Yoav Abi inheritance War In Eritrea
« In 1966 , the beggars From the government With Reconciling
some Elders Selected Sent என்றும். Front Tea
Yes. 16 kilometers from Asmara Meter Rat On Be available has been என்றும். Ten
Lead Local People In peace Negotiation To participate First
Moon contribution to do Saying Hedo To see Opened
Early என்றும். The government and The poor To reconcile Those who went Elder
The lions Jabhanna Vaabian Reconcile Be like. என்றும். Like
Chum Right there to the Desert Kobalo என்றும்.
« In Ethiopia The one who lit it Revolution In the east and In the dark
In Somalia : In the name of west ; Ethiopian Democracy Unity
We are In the words Princes : Inside as a EPRP And Others
Fifth Rowers ; outside Also Together Imperial
Silence Power Where is it stretched? Crisis Time has been என்றும். For the revolution Remaining
Betel Question : From the revolution Or From Eritrea Which one ?
Difficult Question has been என்றும். Ethiopian Existence Great test
On It fell. . Ethiopia You are praying. Country No more She finished. ;
She was relieved. It is said Started என்றும். so true Without a trace Apparently Seen
has been என்றும். The new Ethiopian Map What It seems like to see
Those who try People a few There were no என்றும். The situation By looking ; How old are you?
Tun Abay From the source: red The sea The Khanate By controlling Weakened
what Ethiopia to see What you want some Arabic Government
State ; Sudan including ; From the separatists Side publicly Lined up ;
as a Crazy Rescuer Kara Accept Started என்றும். This All Together
For the separatists Suitable Condition He created them. என்றும். Golden Time Drop
Their என்றும். The situation Using Be careful. என்றும்.
« Sahil ; Keren ; Disciple : Partially Influence ; Dungolo
Genda ; Wind : Ambatkala ; Seventy ; Nakfa inter alia
In Shaabia Hand They fell. என்றும். Barca : To be destroyed ; Adiqala : Cut it. ;
Sorry. inter alia In front Be arrested. என்றும். Asmara ; Barentuna Partially
Mitzvah Were By the government Hand The rest என்றும். These are If they are
Time Case has been என்றும். Mitzvah Three The fourth Class Hold on.
Jump. Asmara In seven Kilo Meter Distance She is surrounded. என்றும். The
Samara Throat He is strangled. Food ; Water : Light : Firewood :;
No என்றும். Hunger Entered என்றும். Handful Raw Aroal என்றும். Home Tika Looking
They ran away. To walk It has begun. என்றும். From the shooting other Audible rock me
No என்றும். Shoot. Landafta When it stops the world Like the dead Cemetery
Quiet says என்றும். And Sending Death Come and By the way Yanshkashukal என்றும். the weather
Death Smell holding Coming என்றும். Children Hungry They cry. ;
Mothers Worried Lament They will laugh. ; Elders From the door Sit down.
saying They are tired. என்றும். Factories Smoke They don't see it. ; Fields
Tom They have done it. என்றும். Markets They won't stop › They will stop Empty There were --
Separatists Or Internal Their supporters As they say
Fight « Today To enter is it : tomorrow " They will enter, " he said. Rumor In Care Of
Breathe. : * Determined Determined ; come on Maybe : Moten Let's wait.
Saying "Yes !" In his life Cut it out While waiting ; The others Also
Separatists Supporter Even if they are not : over here Sit down. We say how Let's
Are we protecting them ? went out We say From them With Drum I am dying.
Kan If we enter better than Saying With victory Locality Patriotism From the city
Mau Leaving They are beautiful. has been என்றும். Pie Bake it. ; enemy Water
Crisis Ketema Gozguze " Nsatom " n Or " Gagedalti " n
With victory Login Wait. has been என்றும். In Eritrea Open Country History
Inside Dominance gets called What is expected? Power sit
Say To host Attitude brand new thing is not என்றும். In the 400s
Struggle History Inside One Power When he goes Another When it comes
To see common thing As It has been Ingenuity second
Nature to be nothing else It won't be left. என்றும். Doubt It will increase. என்றும். The
= Thomas » Number Easy is not என்றும்.
« Anyway thing For the separatists Strengthening Reason
What happened? What has been ?
« Like us --- in Ethiopia Revolution On From within " From the outside "
Arrived Heavy Stress in case As usual Reason
As To be mentioned Can என்றும். at the time was Army In the east;
If I go south : In the north and In the middle Country ; On every front The one who burned
Pressure to cope Enough Power and Armor It didn't have என்றும். In this On
Waqish and Who fights for us? Purpose Strong Knowing Army
If not, other ; The army Same Community fat Body As
they became Size : * M . E . Son . IHAP : ;Wezlig, ;Irch . Ut, ;
Paded * E. D. H. W. Zete . In the so - called : Time By their creation
Political Lines Inside Divided ; Weakened For attack
Vulnerable has been என்றும்.
« Second --- in Ethiopia On Old Purpose have Area
Beau Kingdoms In the country What happened? I am tired. Condition By
Used Old Their dreams Real to do From all time
More as a Hyena Dismissed Starting from Separatists Oops!
Remove them. Until They are armed. : Secretly In Ethiopia Earth
On Military Power Where they lined up Time has been என்றும். at the time The revolution
Trustworthy Foreign Power It didn't have என்றும். America brand new
Device To give Case Even ; Earlier When For Ethiopia
What she sold Device Stop She is holding. என்றும். Eastern Europe Age
Roach From the Soviet Unity including ; Ethiopia Revolution Sea
Raina Content Until you understand Until Observantly Standing Those who are concerned
In the Time has been என்றும். Ethiopia Wide People From himself Selah It hurts.
Be careful. Power I didn't have it. என்றும். Organizing Of the time Urgent
Case even if ; Inside Inside us It will take place. was Political
Lines Fight In the morning Condition Creating Difficult has been என்றும்.
Therefore ; The revolution at the time His own Power new Structure and
Spirit Semengbat Fata Lost it Crisis Time has been என்றும்.
« Third --- in Eritrea Divide Country Organized Available
Forces ; Against Feudal : Against Imperialism Against Bureaucracy
Yawi Capitalism position they have By mail estimate ; The revolutionary
Government Christmas From the beginning The one who chose Reconciliation street : Tegen
Throws To as a Fatigue By appearing ; None Their morale
High As When encouraging them : And two : Free Movement so that
And Propaganda To carry out Poor Chance Door If you open it
Their என்றும். Therefore To be proud of Power Lost It seems People
Walking Hedo The separatists Power Inflame Started என்றும். Because
Come. Most of them Eritrean Cities By bandits Hand They fell. என்றும்.
" In this place" Crisis Time has been The second Freelancer Revolutionary
Army « Revolutionary Ethiopia Or Death » Every
The penalty Resolutely When printed came from என்றும்.
« Witness Eritrean Wide People one Body and Dependent By
Yes In every direction With victory Action It will be fine. It started.
Special Special duty Forces Root Lined up The second
Free Issuer Revolutionary Army Amazingly Speed The enemy
Fortress Darkness Beating It was ' future' The one who is moving 501
duty Power From the city Humera Got up By Ali Heifer In the sun
“›” Djamefoo :: M
Who N Mitch N
By doing ; From the bottom Got up : Network on top Crossing In the evening
Wait. As From what came From 502 actions Power With Barentu On
Connected 801 and 502 functions Forces 808 again
Power called ; Half On the surface to the Drawing When moving :; Another
Also to the Down Folded to the Keren If it leads Later From Asmara body
Baby With excitement Honey ; Ambassador : Adi Let's go. Ilabersad
On Be available Those who were Enemy Fortresses Breaking down From what came From 506
duty Power With Keren On With victory Connected என்றும். In And dead Teke
Search The 503 Act Power Mission as follows has been என்றும்.
503 A duty Power The one who arose From Adigrat When : In Rama As
Network If you cross Later Adi Qalan : To be afraid ; Arezan Kuzi
I am grateful. Dbarwan Under control Root By using Shekti On
From 566 actions Power With Connected என்றும். as well From Adwa Starting from
Zoroane Crossed Came from 58503 duty Power By disciple Ad
Yogurt From 503 A. And From 506 Forces with ... on Connected என்றும்.
From the thought By ship Mitzvah 505 entered Power The enemy
Acreage Debt On Broken ; Dogasin : Dungolon ; Breastfeeding
Callan : Ginda's The wind Fortresses In the meantime Asmara
Charity Road By opening Asmara It should be included. In all Opportunity
Roof Victory road trip has been #
« From today tomorrow We will enter. Saying In Asmara City Around as a
Joffe Eagles Spread it. were Bandits ; Hualien
Gear Entered to the Sahl Desert From scratch Selah Choice
They didn't have any. என்றும்.
" right now Front Shabia In the Sahel Desert Show off Started என்றும்.
Their unity Not Their difference Growing came என்றும். Sahel
Desert For the two of them Organizations Lamb is not என்றும். Together to live
Because they can't Only has been என்றும். one more time England Bury it. Who went?
Bomb The work to make Started Eritrea People Inside
it becomes outside Represented Who is it ? Basic Question
Growing Come and , In Shaabian In front Between Mutual each other
War one more time Opened என்றும். Front Power As is Hit என்றும். Tea
Yes. Dominance Defeated என்றும். Earlier When Shabia Three Group
Toch Front - being Even The highlands Country Natives Only Politics
Kavina Military Authority In a monopoly Where they were caught Organizational
Structure As has been என்றும். And the servants If they are Each other In their turn Agree
Leave. to be They couldn't. என்றும். The King of Kings ; What I did Plot It is said
Mutual each other Fajt Because it continues : In the end Shabia One
Location Natives Authority Platform to become no more என்றும்.
« Jabhana Shabia Eritrea on the whole In their control Root
To spend If they could If only What Yessan Was it ? Let's Let's think. என்றும்.
Same The known thing Will it be has been என்றும். History new Event to the
Face Even if it walks The foundation It won't go away. என்றும். English Political
Bomb In the worst Condition In Eritrea Earth Explode has been என்றும். other Congolese :
Nigerian ; Chad ; Conditions On the land of Africa Let it happen. has been என்றும்.
Follow What was Destruction and Massacre To think Not possible :;
Even if you think We are sorry. என்றும்.
The last " From here " All what is What do we learn from this ?
Open Country Problem Mostly From outside Influence Originating that
is it என்றும். Eritrean People This is to know Must என்றும். Foreign Forces
Device Being How long? Until Owned Our country When we fight
Will we survive ? Buyers Between us Busy Those who have gone : -
Waiting Explosive Bomb We will pull it out. drop off We must என்றும். This Let's do it.
We can Each other In our case When we trust is it என்றும். Our hearts Meck
Untied When we start is it W › said one Brother and sister Woman Attached
Come. என்றும்.
Picture You are welcome. to be It should be i say என்றும். But My eye Run.
The one who rested The girl has been என்றும். King David The one who healed Northern
Beautiful heart Crack She does. என்றும். Long Without a trace Dress Dressed ;
a bit Single Her shoulder On get rid of She did. என்றும். In black If you Yes
Worked ; By Solomon Star Shape made Big Gold From a long time Yes
Girl Say Gooch Say appears என்றும். black Long Her hair From the sky
On Down Genesis He said And When you go It will be heard. என்றும். Like the others
Asmara Women When we try Show She is not. என்றும். Her chest Full *
The hip Kora's ; Ask. ; Blood Pot They say Type She is என்றும். Eyes
China I followed. என்றும். My eyes Thrown away Those who went to the Colonel
The story Child has been என்றும். Angry Cat Like has been You
What? என்றும். Asum As if angry Tiger As Look at her. has been என்றும்.
Nchana Nail Even if you don't order it : In their eyes Of anger Words Correct .
Exited Like See me. என்றும். Suddenly His body Angry ; The situation Leave
It's gone. என்றும். She too Happy She doesn't have it. என்றும். Her smile It is dark. என்றும். In the two
Plant was Feeling Happy I don't have it. என்றும். let it be But Because
Their To think Her beauty Time I didn't give it to you. என்றும். Interesting
Type Woman She is not. என்றும். Just like that Christmas When they see her Beloved
Daughter என்றும். Bread Without breaking * the north "Beautiful " I said. Name Take out
Picture With you Solomon In Tregiorgis shoulder For '
Kissed என்றும். Solomon Turning around Introduce it. Started என்றும். From the colonel
The story Child Side has been I stopped. என்றும். Next to you stand out Happy
I don't have it. என்றும். Short Even if I don't
As much as i feel என்றும். He Near When I stop Dwarf I am
Colonel's The story Waldain Name When heard
Rowan
Deer Leave Nocturnal T Angata as a Wonderful Looking at it
If you stay, you will be fine. Where ? How much ? "What ?" he said. The shoulder
Picture Hero It doesn't seem like it. என்றும். To be
No ? I don't know. என்றும். some Those I know Heroine Birds
they are என்றும். The others Fat people they are என்றும். The rest Also person
sunny saying The invisible eye Afars they are என்றும். Picture Height Long
Without; thin; thin Bit is it. The eyes Small they are என்றும். The hair
If Eat Sasach she is என்றும். Clothes Choose dress up Knowing It seems
No என்றும். A gentleman Bulama Clothes From the market He is wearing என்றும். Still
3 Here From the girl Not separated என்றும். She too ; Where is it What do you know ?
For you Not Probably : once in a while Beautiful Her eyes get rid of Overnight
Goalkeeper has been என்றும். there Miserable Television Look at me. it will be என்றும்.
some Time some People Close Those who know me I think so.
Their Greetings If you give me Later Surprise When they say Say They make me laugh. என்றும். On
On the surface Let me laugh. Only Inside Give us. So It annoys me. My face
Reminder All He doesn't know me. என்றும். Fame Filler thing is it என்றும்.
« But What Type Satan "You are ," he said. Picture Yes, yes. By
Surprised Colonel The story Looking என்றும்.
" You too." Satan "You are, " he said. என்றும்.
« Shabia You To kill She didn't try. thing No என்றும்.
But nine Soul are you there Do you remember me ? : one day
Disciple On From you has been என்றும். Somehow Blaha We escaped. என்றும்.
Bullet why? Like you're not being hit. " I don't understand, " he said . என்றும்.
« Thin Because I am it will be ......"
" so true Brave Are you என்றும். two Machine gun In Grana on the right Your hand
Hold on. Your chest Turn it over. Our center When you enter I'm surprised. has been என்றும்.
I hate you. : I admire you. ; I respect you. has been என்றும். That All It passed. என்றும்.
alive We lived. For this Our success cool " It is ," he said. Picture என்றும்.
Speaking He is in a hurry. The movement All Speed it has என்றும்.
Colonel The story there Height On " You too, " he whispered .
I hate you #hal Respect you. has been என்றும். Ala On What did you do? Work
Remember You say ? Like that. From you Burning You broke it. When you leave
My eyes To believe I'm tired. has been என்றும். Dekmehari Like that Ruined
As if she wasn't there. As See you You To kill I swear Oath
There was no என்றும். Disciple Where I was born City she is என்றும். Sometimes
Life Where are you going? Road " It is unknown . " Cullinan
The story Child என்றும்.
Picture We are confused. " What I lost " As much as To compensate Ready
i am என்றும். The sinner It has been returned. என்றும். No more The decisive thing M
Talk Time is it என்றும். The past "It's over, " he said. To me came என்றும்.
For lemon Introduce us என்றும். Photograph As it rises person
so true Focused When he looks at me If it lasts Later Angrily ; " for what
Wanted Indent You are saying What do you call us ? Dogs We are not. என்றும். People
We are * truly* We In the morning We returned. People Condition too bad என்றும்.
Gangsters Internal Fans On every road Every coffee the house
When they see us We will spit. என்றும். Bandits On the radio Their site Infidel
Watch;Fear;Head Friends They tell us. Government Also nothing else
even Mercy Even if it does ; Full Faith What makes us happy?
We don't think so. என்றும். You Journalists Worse You said Origami The
Mill Dog Name You give us என்றும். what is This kind of thing .
Something ! Betrayal all the time Infidel is it has Who It is !|› I said என்றும்.
" other Name " We want it ," I said. என்றும்.
" Yes." : Soon You said If you change it " It's better, " he said. என்றும்.
Let's say " Blessed "" Wild You are not " serge:geb "
Let's not say Also No, " In peace. " " Imitated " Hello
Maui to be in practice to appear I need it. என்றும். Whole Lost thing It happened to us.
" That's it , " I said. என்றும்.
Suddenly Slap As if struck person Kew he said என்றும். What I'm sorry.
Tomorrow I do not understand என்றும். My thoughts Deep to see Trying has been
It seems Tick Say Eye My eyes When he looks at me என்றும்.
Later ; Later, " What? " " You said it ." என்றும்.
« When I'm kidding is it What " I lost it ," I said. என்றும்.
Answer I didn't give it to you. என்றும். In small The eyes as a Injection Tradition
Tong to the Three The hungry He went. என்றும். Colonel With the rod Heard My back
Touch As a result " What? " If you say so is it " The one who is angry ? " He asked me. என்றும்.
Sometimes ; That Happy that The smile at night From the sky
Raw face On Paste Seeing As if I didn't see As ' human' Feelings and Condition
To consider The experience is it Colonel Spit என்றும். What happened? thing Don't be afraid.
Goodbye என்றும். Ingolu as a Dictionary Words Everything thing Sign up
Husband என்றும். Lips Reading Ability Without having It remains !
« Wanted Indent From saying Wedding Indent Mast It is better. Maybe ! Because
Cut is it ..." ,
" why So You said it. my baby
« My joke It was ... oh well. " Did you ask me ?"
« But What Type Satan "You are ," he said. Picture Yes, yes. By
Surprised Colonel The story Looking என்றும்.
" You too." Satan "You are, " he said. என்றும்.
« Shabia You To kill She didn't try. thing No என்றும்.
But nine Soul are you there Do you remember me ? : one day
Disciple On From you has been என்றும். Somehow Blaha We escaped. என்றும்.
Bullet why? Like you're not being hit. " I don't understand, " he said . என்றும்.
« Thin Because I am it will be ......"
" so true Brave Are you என்றும். two Machine gun In Grana on the right Your hand
Hold on. Your chest Turn it over. Our center When you enter I'm surprised. has been என்றும்.
I hate you. : I admire you. ; I respect you. has been என்றும். That All It passed. என்றும்.
alive We lived. For this Our success cool " It is ," he said. Picture என்றும்.
Speaking He is in a hurry. The movement All Speed it has என்றும்.
Colonel The story there Height On " You too, " he whispered .
I hate you #hal Respect you. has been என்றும். Ala On What did you do? Work
Remember You say ? Like that. From you Burning You broke it. When you leave
My eyes To believe I'm tired. has been என்றும். Dekmehari Like that Ruined
As if she wasn't there. As See you You To kill I swear Oath
There was no என்றும். Disciple Where I was born City she is என்றும். Sometimes
Life Where are you going? Road " It is unknown . " Cullinan
The story Child என்றும்.
Picture We are confused. " What I lost " As much as To compensate Ready
i am என்றும். The sinner It has been returned. என்றும். No more The decisive thing M
Talk Time is it என்றும். The past "It's over, " he said. To me came என்றும்.
For lemon Introduce us என்றும். Photograph As it rises person
so true Focused When he looks at me If it lasts Later Angrily ; " for what
Wanted Indent You are saying What do you call us ? Dogs We are not. என்றும். People
We are * truly* We In the morning We returned. People Condition too bad என்றும்.
Gangsters Internal Fans On every road Every coffee Home
When they see us We will spit. என்றும். Bandits On the radio Their site Infidel
Watch;Fear;Head Friends They tell us. Government Also nothing else
even Mercy Even if it does ; Full Faith What makes us happy?
We don't think so. என்றும். You Journalists Worse You said Origami The
Mill Dog Name You give us என்றும். what is This kind of thing .
Something ! Betrayal all the time Infidel is it has Who It is !|› I said என்றும்.
" other Name " We want it ," I said. என்றும்.
" Yes." : Soon You said If you change it " It's better, " he said. என்றும்.
Let's say " Blessed "" Wild You are not " serge:geb "
Let's not say Also No, " In peace. " " Imitated " Hello
Maui to be in practice to appear I need it. என்றும். Whole Lost thing It happened to us.
" That's it , " I said. என்றும்.
Suddenly Slap As if struck person Kew he said என்றும். What I'm sorry.
Tomorrow I do not understand என்றும். My thoughts Deep to see Trying has been
It seems Tick Say Eye My eyes When he looks at me என்றும்.
Later ; Later, " What? " " You said it ." என்றும்.
« When I'm kidding is it What " I lost it ," I said. என்றும்.
Answer I didn't give it to you. என்றும். In small The eyes as a Injection Tradition
Tong to the Three The hungry He went. என்றும். Colonel With the rod Heard My back
Touch As a result " What? " If you say so is it " The one who is angry ? " He asked me. என்றும்.
Sometimes ; That Happy that The smile at night From the sky
Raw face On Paste Seeing As if I didn't see As ' human' Feelings and Condition
To consider The experience is it Colonel Spit என்றும். What happened? thing Don't be afraid.
Goodbye என்றும். Ingolu as a Dictionary Words Everything thing Sign up
Husband என்றும். Lips Reading Ability Without having It remains !
« Wanted Indent From saying Wedding Indent Mast It is better. Maybe ! Because
Cut is it ..." ,
" why So You said it. my baby
« My joke It was ... oh well. " Did you ask me ?"
" Yes, indeed ." is it என்றும். Rather From him With She came. Child
Her eyes You are welcome. Hidna "Play it ," I said. என்றும்.
« Woman Don't come closer. You say No "Right ?"
« rather Opportunity " Don't miss it, " he told me . He went. என்றும்.
What do you think? I said. to the The girl I went. என்றும். Men's
Wanda Male Speech to hear I'm bored. has been என்றும். Change
's not bad ! " Only one Stop. What ? Do you drink ?
What I will bring you. I told her ,
« Beer In Sprite »
Question Face I showed her. " In Bitter " * Okay என்றும். Beer In Sprite
When drinking But I have seen it. I heard. I do not know என்றும்.
« Good Inside " Look ," she said . என்றும். When you speak Her hair is falling out. என்றும்.
With her hair What do you say? is it What do you think? என்றும்.
" Yes." Goodbye " I said , ' Kola '. " என்றும்.
« Tigrinya You are welcome. Deca »
" Oh, yeah." Close Close »
« Tigrinya You can't. .my father I will die. You made me feel. The leaves என்றும்.
Wow Her teeth Show up They are not satisfied. என்றும். Beauty God In the morning
hawk Sorted them Red Sea Pearls They seem to என்றும்.
" This is it. " Throat Passionate Language ! Excitement " It is, " I said .
" Let's throw it away. " Because it is not cut. it will be "
" Let's go." hundred Say »
« Dead »
" Let's go." Hey you Say »
" You too?" Amharic You can't. my father " Let them die ," I said.
We drank it. To bring her I went. என்றும்.
We drank it. Yep When I return Solomon In Tregiorgis Road
On He caught me. என்றும். Upset feel like என்றும்.
« What Honk I said.
Every minute has been Telephone Call to be done என்றும். Sad
sleep என்றும். Be angry. But Fatigue face On Not visible என்றும்.
« Mitzvah Festival Committee is it What bothers me? என்றும். Bharat
Time " He's waiting for me ," I said . என்றும்.
« Anymore ? Your heart To stop Only I said. என்றும்.
« The Guru On two Tukulas To work Search *
Grass Wood Without They are in trouble. என்றும். me either I gave them
Time so true Short is it என்றும். Twenty four Time Working "They are ," he said. என்றும்.
" So?" Grass Wood from where Will you bring it ? If it is lost why?
It's likely ....»
« To make Must என்றும். From where? We want என்றும். In Europe
For us if From where? We will install. . " he said Firmly Spirit என்றும்.
"" Debel The strength Give it to you. என்றும். This drink For that Child
I said, 'Lads .'" என்றும்.
« Journalist Upon arrival Public Connection Mekun It is "* co
Beef " I'm sorry, " he said. என்றும்.
« Telephone Shout. has been "
« Television open up " It is allowed, " I said. என்றும்.
« What Program he said "
« My
" about what ?"
« About Asmara »
« When " What did you do ?"
« Today morning As soon as I arrived ...»
« From them You got it. My child ? Is it possible? என்றும். me either to see Fly
I'm going to sleep ," he said . Telephone The call Acceptance Run. என்றும். And the house
Inside as a Run. is it என்றும்.
We drank it. I brought it to her and said , " Hey." Tigrinya From my school all right.
Thousand Am I right ? Grace Hailemariam " My name is " I said.
We drank it. I tasted it. I gave it to her. என்றும். so true cool drink is it என்றும்.
« On TV I know you. என்றும். You too Amharic Will you teach me ?
She said ; Her hair She is sleeping. Her smile He misses. என்றும்.
Who I think You are welcome. Northern " Good morning ?" I asked. Her name Asked
Quat She laughed. ;: « Fiametta Gisai I am called " Bala" Her name She told me.
Her name I'm stunned. My eyebrows High Down When I do Look at me; " What's up ?"
She said என்றும்.
« Stranger Name is it ..."
« Italian Name is it ..."
« What to say is it ?"
" a bit Flame ...»
" Really ? You ?" From afar Escape " It's better, " I said. என்றும்.
" Why ?" she said. என்றும்.
« Name Send It will come out. It is called என்றும். as a Your name If you are
Dangerous is it என்றும். In small Flame Burned Ending Kind is not என்றும்.
as a Your name That you are not hope " I will, " I said. என்றும்.
" i am my father "Let them die ," she said. Laugh என்றும்.
" how ?"
« In my childhood Fire i have been என்றும். I am crying. : Goods I am breaking. :
From home I am disappearing. Mother and My father When I bother them has been என்றும். Alone
Also lay off i don't like has been என்றும். Alone If you contact me Late
on the whole I cry. I will stay. என்றும். And from them With I am sleeping. they When playing
The tree I heard If I cried. என்றும். For this Not Probably
Fiammetta Mail Name " They 'll take me out ." She helped me. என்றும்.
" What now ?" I asked. I asked her »
" Yes, yes." Big Flame i am என்றும். For my love But No
Hum என்றும். For my love person Marina Milk i am என்றும். Sugar i am "
« And Your favorite What Type person Will it be
" as a Stone Sharp as a Iron Hot ; as a Sugar
Delicious Male child one more time She laughed.
« Truth
« My joke is it என்றும். My secret right now I won't tell you ...»
" What's wrong ?"
« Secret " It is ," she said . என்றும்.
" all right என்றும். myself one day I will reach it. it will be என்றும். But Your name
If you change it cool has been ..."
" why ?"
« Foreigner Name is it என்றும். Asmara Roads ; Shops : Coffee
Houses ; Hotels and Restaurants Factories Without fail In a foreign country
Name is it They call. Italian Residue Same Foreigner Thought and
Perspective To follow It's likely. In this period Country High Ba
life Revolution To go Required ; really என்றும். Don't you think so ?
« Fiametta If you like it Fana Tell me » Silence She said என்றும்.
From her perspective The conversation Direction To follow She didn't want to.
I understand. என்றும். But She's not angry with me. என்றும். Any Political
Conversation It's like you're hiding from the sky. She appeared. I was not surprised. Class
The country person All From political Conversation To flee Attitude it has என்றும்.
in case Bored it will be Or In fear என்றும். But I fell in love.
- I hate it. From politics Runaway to live I can't. என்றும். Still let it be
Or Back The role separate stand out should என்றும். In red Star
Campaign Season other What Option Will there be one ? When he dies Another
Viewer to be Can't என்றும். Anyway thing In this Direction
By word I'm going to push her. I didn't want to. என்றும். Title I changed. என்றும். Stranger
Beauty என்றும். Stranger Name என்றும். Stranger Drink. Chance *
Shawan I asked her. என்றும். Without Hesitation Home Her office Phone
Numbers She gave it to me and said , " Quick." Are you my father "Let them die ," she said.
« Life Stop Don't wait for us ...»
" This Foot Member "Is that so ?"
Stranger Question ...
« Foot You said it !
" So?" What What is it called ? Ktemawe. Perfect Disturbed என்றும். In the nature
System » Eat other Question Can you offer me? When you say ; Picture Sound
Clean High As a result ;: « Fair Boy Barhe What did it do to me? Let me show you !
Yes, there is. The coat It's gone. என்றும். The tie Solve என்றும். And the roof. Take it off.
throw என்றும். What to do Is it ? By lying. All of us We hesitated ...
to the He We are close. என்றும். Argument with has been The shirt. Keys
Untied When it ends The shirt to the On He turned it over. The back Show us என்றும்.
Crazy The one who plowed Field Yes "Shut up." The bone Until Deep
He/She/It Crazy Farm என்றும். The shirt Locked Adjusting " Jer "
My father On What did you see? Scar Front Progressivism and Humanity
sign Yes, 1 is not. Boy "Why ?" he said. The roof and The coat
Derbo When it ends The cross Deeply Adjusting; « Standing It hit me.
Who beat me? Boy Barhe Why? What if it's called ? Front Introverted
Ethiopia and C. I. A. agent is it Saying என்றும். I wouldn't have.
thing Like that * Wound * On Boiling Wow When flowing Did I cry ?
Did I shout ? Nono என்றும். Silence I said My death has been I wish I could die. If
I swear I am not dead. என்றும். Death I want என்றும். I will not die. என்றும்.
From there Time Since Death I am not afraid. என்றும். Death nothing else Don't be mistaken.
Front "Teacher ," he said. என்றும்.
Fitwiwood Barhe Laughed. : My name is Hona Yes, that's right. Killing Easy
It was, " he said. என்றும்.
« Your humanity High Without Thank you ! With great pleasure Irony என்றும்.
Justice Tell us. easily To accompany looking for The air By hand Gavna
« Anyway thing Your identity In love it becomes necessarily Verify
We had to என்றும். One Organization 3 levels Joke No, it is not. என்றும். From the village
Goosebumps keep out A Beautiful என்றும். And Hey you Also so true Suspicious
Creature "You were ..." he said. என்றும்.
Picture Angry , * " Who?" I Boy In Rahih he said என்றும்.
" Yes Boy " Barahi " said Justice Fear Say என்றும்.
« The power of Trinity Government Official you were district Governor.
Isaiah Afewerki Latest Friend you were என்றும். This Only
is not என்றும். Enough. Station Inside Isaiah Afewerki Richa
Download Copeland From the said C. I. A. Spy With Connect
Hey you you were என்றும். them Where you meet Season Who Tenth
Compensation Established Eritrean Hello Conference Committee Member You are here.
When you work has been என்றும். So This All Knowingly Our hearts We opened it.
Our hands We spread out. To welcome you You wanted. has it been Wow ! until
Manbedres For the purpose We were standing. Now. That All It's over.
me either I became Hey you Barhan For Adharyan and For the smart ones Let's leave. Come
We are tired. என்றும். No more Land Purpose together to make We must என்றும்.
Your back On has Scar past History is it என்றும். Forget it » Oilena
The whiskey Angrily It was cut. என்றும். Continued " And Also Ethio
Pian Wide People Revolution I am wrong. In my fight In my sleep is it
But You By the way Or By whipping me Of conscience Regret No
I heard it too ... son "Your Majesty, " he said. என்றும்.
Then The thing is The one who is lazy Change ; and you Whose Child Yes
What is it ? Title Argument Started என்றும். All four Dejazmachi
Children Were என்றும். Surprisingly thing : Their fathers All four Father
Toch Known " unionists " that they are From the conversation
Their When I understand ; These Father Bone Teardrops From what On Revenge ?
that Question I came. என்றும். And Why ? In fact, " Ethiopia"
Or I died. The said Association Unity Eternal Open
thread at first They took it out. Picture father as a Because they were , Later
their children This From Bur Slogan Leave it alone. Stepped on : Eritrea
From Ethiopia To separate to the Desert When entering ; In the same way Status Pierced
Loaded In the heart Pain Suddenly Their deaths Rumor When I hear Yes
Touch என்றும். Bad Sadness I felt ... they sowed. When it disappears ... without growing
Sugar Or Weed When it's crowded .... no Farmer Weakness ... sadness
This is mother Country ... those who are bleeding and Her breast Biting Children
Where you will not give birth Time When Come Will it be ; Squirrel Mother's
Stomach ... picture to the Prince Good morning Zoro has been என்றும்.
« From the front I love you. Shabia When I come Who Welcome.
you think ? Good morning It was " my back" Even if I show it He did not believe.
I am not. என்றும். In the morning the world Inside rely on No என்றும். Portrait
Prisoner Hona Land month Inside Examination On I stayed.
« Then What He made me Where do you think ? The office Taken Kishan
Unload I have no Without What I don't have thing I unloaded. என்றும். And This Of Photo
Graph "Is that so ? " He asked me. என்றும்.
" My mother, " I said .
« From today Since Without a partner mother " You don't have it ," he said . My name is Nate.
Photograph In front of me Surgery Throw it away.
" Is this it? " Who she is ?"
" My lover " Olku
« From today Since Without a partner other Lover You don't have it. Say
The photograph Surgery The pot என்றும்.
« My head Gold and Finger My ring. Taken ; Without a partner
other Ornament no need i have என்றும். Then My shoes My clothes Taken
For shoes Shrub Clothing Sack Like He gave it to me. என்றும். Wood Need -
I am Bread I'm sorry. Started என்றும். Body Washing * Clothes to spend
No என்றும். McKenna To be angry I started. என்றும். Portrait Death pass away is it.
Nobody; * nothing To be Feeling On us On To stay overnight It starts என்றும்.
F month Later For the volunteer Training I was taken. என்றும்.
Boy Strength as a My shadow Follow me. என்றும். The Wakadera Training
Death I like it. என்றும். Where were they taken? day It is raining. என்றும். Without Eat -
Without Grain From the bush Place For the week : For two Week Guess :
Travel There is a sun. In the rain, in the dark By day Travel Help me.
As you go sleep He took you. Does he know ?! Sleep
a lot Road a lot day Where I traveled Time he said என்றும்.
Your friends If you are near me Separately When they fall You are welcome. என்றும்.
You won't tell them, " Carrying You can't. என்றும். For the hyena I will leave.
Their Are you going? என்றும். Their death He/She will envy you. என்றும். About death Only is it
I am sorry. என்றும். But Your soul You won't go out. என்றும். You are shaking. என்றும்.
Come Then one day Prisoners To the place where they will be buried. location
You will be taken. . yourself The well You dig. என்றும். yourself Seton
Wood On Bubble You will be arrested. என்றும். And His eyes Tick You say
You are called என்றும். You see. என்றும். Glitch is it Death It will be better. you say என்றும்.
You too pass away New What you want. But You won't die. In Sanja
« The battle You are called Your coaches Your feelings About seeing Eye Eye
building They will show you. They will weigh you. And Your eyes Looking Bubble Arrested
person You will kill. என்றும். Soil You will wear it. என்றும். Death nothing else is not
Then person You won't be. Enough ! To live You will kill. என்றும். is not
Boy Zruek he said என்றும்.
Tell us. Exaggerating In motion Supporting When explaining Right Outgoing
For you Platform Actress It seems has been என்றும். All of us Our breath High
Steam has been What we hear. Fiamethane I forgot her. Death Forget me !
" other Beer In Sprite " Shall I bring you ?"
« No Noose She said - her hair She is sleeping. என்றும்.
First When you come Web Her face On See you later. was cool
Feeling right now It is not visible. Thought Who holds it? Like She appeared to me.
Colonel With the rod Heard Silence Say He laughs. என்றும். Inaudible
Apparently He sees. என்றும். Colonel The story Thought Gum Inside Entered Lost
feel like என்றும். Solomon Stick George The conversation Because it tasted good
Not Probably What to throw Telephone Call Soon Closed Price
" why You came. Say Book of Daniel Picture He asked.
" Wow ! The question. " why? Did you come ? No. என்றும். Even You came.
to say You had to என்றும். You don't think so. Brother
« even Safely You came, why? You came. He replied.
" How ? Why ? " " Did you come ? " - question I don't understand .
" I mean, " he said. Book: "The Book of Sha'abiyyah " Center Committee Member
And Halwa Hide Main Writer you were என்றும். Disciple Administrator
Shabia south Command Commissar you were என்றும். Big Place You had என்றும்.
What if Reason to return Enough ? It is #3;
« Like him " Tell me, " he said. It began "« I Shaabian as a my mom
has been My love In this என்றும். due to Sincerely and to be honest Service
For me என்றும். I'm sorry, but at last one thing I realized.
T Pride For the blind Racism For power and For cheap Benefit
If not Except What we are fighting for We die for it. Purpose Perfect There are none.
Also என்றும். We From the rest Ethiopian People Special Or better than
What makes us None thing No என்றும். Sixty Era In the field State
Root Our existence To make us proud Or In my power Better People
To make us Can't என்றும். Cities Let's leave. The countryside Eritrea
If we look ; Farmer The village People Same Like no other Ethiopian
Farmer Ader Maimna Backward is it என்றும். Our difference Which On is it ?
Our history ? History In a hurry Writing Not possible என்றும். Eritrea It
Japanese Is it not? no one to explain Can't என்றும்.
« So so far What we fought for Purpose What? Let us explain.
Can we ? The question is over here On is it என்றும். Ethiopia Eritrea Colony
State She did. We say என்றும். But This to say nothing else Type
Base We don't have any. என்றும். This In reality To explain and To convince
Unless we can Until Purpose We have to say Be careful. is it என்றும்.
" This is it. " Shabia she is Progressive . No Front She is Progressive
What we say thing Leave it. என்றும். Price don't have என்றும். He I am a liar.
Begging Bottle is it என்றும்.
« Tea Front Conflict Manesho Ideology is not.
however Never h This well i know என்றும். I am alive. என்றும்.
I have worked hard. என்றும். Their conflict Home Religion and Tribe Forest
We Thick From It originates என்றும். And its destination Here it is. is it "#
This Contradiction result What Was it ? The 1973 Ars Between Horrible
Sad War and Massacre என்றும்.
« Gondar On You are welcome. Silence You said If you look at us Okay.
Each other In our case Drunk When we finish Appear has been என்றும். my father Let them die.
Eritrean Freedom Yours Opportunity By yourself To decide Let's say What
Shout it out. Just like that in vain is it என்றும். For which one Nationality ?
Raye ? For Akelguzai ? For Hamasen ? For Barka ? For Sahel ? For Dunkel Price
Empty is it என்றும்.
" right now my darling So Type Thinking has person
Or So Type Thinking On Arrived person By bandits
Organization Inside to exist Can't என்றும். Your opinion Your job On ; Your behavior
On : Your actions On Reflection It starts என்றும். Dangerous Condition On
Will you reach ? Your heart Once If you cover it pass away Or To go Yes
Wanted என்றும். But About God You said Wanted log on Don't eat me !' he said.
To me Looking என்றும்.
« When It's ' Quanterview ' What do you give me? Because I asked him. என்றும்.
« Wanted Indent If you don't tell me As you wish. Time » Tell me என்றும்.
" tomorrow why? no way ..."
« Ready " I am ," I said. என்றும்.
Writing Daniel Suggestion " Purpose " We don't have any. Don't say என்றும். Purpose
You have. என்றும். That is, ; red The sea Arab Lake to do Old
Purpose is it என்றும். Eritrean Problem Cause Here it is. is it என்றும். Another
Also This Middle Country Grow All Let's buy it. If we can't :;
why? From him We are separated. Ourselves We will not buy. is it What do you say? என்றும்.
Grow up ! No. What do you say? Saying By authority He spoke. :;
" why As soon as you return We talked. என்றும். Let's Also First of all
how As soon as you leave " Let's play, " he said. என்றும்.
« My work If you don't mind right now " What the hell !" I said. என்றும்.
" tomorrow You twisted it. Without presenting in the past From it Listen I think is it !"
Saying By word Pepper Lost Down என்றும்.
« I I left. My soul To save Or Desert I entered. bye
Yes I am struggling. If I die better than I think " It is " The speech
It began " Like the others " Mother's Country Call Accepted Or Warmth
It has come. I think : Or Who In battle Back Who It will be released.
with Agitation There was no என்றும். Fear has been to the Desert Leave
A flower என்றும். There Time It will happen. was Blindly Massacre Young
Eritrean All Gangster What do they think? People Were என்றும். Closet
Inside why? I will kill you ! People once in a while Your own Evil
Enemies "You are ," he said. என்றும்.
Solomon has been next to The one who said " Yes" For their own benefit In order
This Country Forever As if it were broken to live who want People Look
Tummy என்றும். Still will live என்றும். For robbery ; For bribery : For a woman In order Terror
Those who create People Were Still. There will be « one Our struggle From whom
This the eyes People With is it என்றும்.
« Man Without fear His neck sunny As a result To go ; * Oh ....
Equally Shadow Root Law and Justice He said to me Say To believe us
to live If we can For the rest Problems Solution to find no
We are in trouble. My truth. It's hers. Our problem Human problems is it "
If there is Later : one Time Since it arrived Problem Since Play with us. Started
So When என்றும். word
" one Husband Wife They were there. City. The man. rich
Merchant has been என்றும். The woman so true beautiful She was என்றும். So Be His name
To call What I don't want one Official My wife Want
Tall என்றும். Refuse She says # In His Authority Using The person In the
Ngel Taken It is binding. என்றும். and then Later The woman Trouble
It starts என்றும். Still Refuse She says. என்றும். It won't happen.
When he knows * 80 thousand Silver From the person Bribe Accepted Will release. என்றும்.
Wait. The merchant Suddenly He exposed me. it will be Saying one more time
Taken It is binding. என்றும். From a few day Later The merchant Arrived
It disappears. என்றும். The woman Her husband to search Where she didn't reach Prison at home
No என்றும். Money I'm sorry. Your husband Where As is Let's show you. Saying
They deceive her. Were என்றும். For this Money ; For that reason Money When you say
Her money She finished. என்றும். From the body She left. என்றும். Once Ogaden Front
Sent. He says, "Other." Time Also Covered Desert Entered They call her.
brand new Flower the world Enough for me. is it They say it. என்றும். all of them Place She went. என்றும்.
Her husband But Wherever There was no என்றும். at last I Ga Arrived என்றும். Tell us.
I checked. Your husband It is dead. Sorry I said, "You're surprised." Shout
Eat She shouted. என்றும். Joy There was no Shout The truth is #
By knowing It is crying. Sadness To sit Can I ? She said to me . This is
You are here. I told her. என்றும். Remembrance To take out Can I ? She said to me . Whatever you want.
To do could you I told her. என்றும். And Her Type Problem have
Many Were என்றும். In this due to The revolution Complain Is it possible ?
. Not possible . என்றும். some Infidels and Benefit Persecutors By those who created
Problem The revolution Complain correct No, it is not. என்றும். But » Speech
run He continued, " Man, Guilty is it என்றும். Without Fear The right
To honor Must என்றும். For justice deviation Fear Home is it என்றும். Of course
Today no one Insufficient Evidence From the house Taken away He will not be arrested. என்றும்.
He will not be killed. என்றும். That Time It's over. என்றும். Even then if some Disaster
cause What could Of command Chain Abundance has been என்றும். Today
Español : in case tomorrow Also Made The village Party one
stew something Central leadership Where it is given Condition In a hurry
Inside Human Life and Property in vain To be lost : * Human Right
By force To be stripped " He can't, " he said. ' .
" hope " We will do it, " he said. Book Daniel To me Meles
" This is it. " My dear " I don't believe it, " I said. In my ear என்றும்.
" Where ?"
« This Wanted Enter ...»
" why >>
« Come on. என்றும். But I don't believe it ...»
- « Doubtful Your nature it will be So What do you think? என்றும். Man
To And your health. Do you doubt? By the way On Blood Quantity
how It is. I said. என்றும்.
« Lunch On I went. I was measured. has been ..."
" And ?"
« Sky It's out »
" why ?"
" leave me alone Jal என்றும். some Colonels This It's not possible. : This
th Even three day three And Saturday to arrive Can't
When they say Crazy About Gun Take it out. Table On
Your face They do it. : What Did you say that ? என்றும். And What You will do it !
Dome Your quantity Sky It comes out என்றும். This Campaign Without killing me Remains
You say Is that enough ? Senior Even don't have ..."
The time arrived Because it was I went. Television " I opened it . " News
Given என்றும். The news About the flood Danger : About the airplane Danger and In Care Of
Special Special Seminars Only has been என்றும். In Care Of The campaign Given nothing else
News There was no என்றும். My Program Continued என்றும். some Superstition Place
On From cutting other Bad Program There was no என்றும். in advance
She thanked me. Fiammetta Gila She was என்றும்.
" Do you like it ?" I asked her.
" Yes." In order I understand. Yes. When you say Right as a Cat
I know you. She looks like என்றும். In the nature system that Word From her mouth
It will not disappear. என்றும். Picture away Say Look at us. has been என்றும். Cain's
Type The view Happy I don't know. என்றும்.
Solomon He came and said , " Good." has been என்றும். Peace Palm tree Today Wanted
Gow Eritrea Problem Badis Spirit Badis Type To see
Case "It is ..." he said. What started Speech Unfinished Justice
Boy Barhe Nine Say When it falls See you later. to the He We went. To drink.
For the surface On It has flowed. The glass Let's go. It's out. He is not dead.
Drum Say Drunk has been என்றும்.
Book to the My ear Close He said, " Guilty. " Conscience Punishment
It is ," I said . என்றும். It is Death Blot has been என்றும்.
" Please. " Jal as a He "Don't say it ," I said. என்றும்.
" why " I won't say it ?"
« These People What you saw Suffering and What they spent Anxiety Hey you
You don't know. என்றும். You should understand. Can't என்றும். Don't judge. என்றும். Hey you This
Country Native If you were What to do Have you ever been friends ?
Desert Get down. as a Male When they fight You Your mother Guya Shweta
Good morning stew Kamasul Was it ? The loss. From the purpose On "Yes, " I said. என்றும்.
Please. leave me alone Oh my ! Yesterday ! Still - still Killers Were என்றும்.
why? As we believe them I don't understand. என்றும். Before if Casual
Children they are Saying Opportunity We gave To strengthen If we don't do it,
Life Here They will not arrive. has been ..."
" Please. " Silence Son Doubt and என்றும். Hate Wherever They won't reach us.
Faith and hope To pursue It's better » Olkut என்றும்.
Evening has been என்றும். I'm tired என்றும். Drinking myself On exit
It has begun. என்றும். Long day has been என்றும். Solomon To go Without haste
It's gone. என்றும். Mitzvah Festival Committee He/She will wait. என்றும். Starting with
Riya To go The one who arose Colonel The story Child has been என்றும். Happy Say
Change has been That evening என்றும். most of the time Time Let's drink. holding When it rains
has been But Speaking I didn't see it. என்றும். over there While As if it wasn't
As much as has been The situation. Come and To say goodbye to me. When " The story" : When
Shall we meet ? Asmara Yours Ktema she is என்றும். some Place To
I'm sorry. " I want it ," I said. என்றும்.
" tomorrow I will go. " It is ," I said . என்றும்.
" Where ?"
" to the Afaab »
" what?" " Are you coming back ?"
« If I don't die ; Kdil " I have later ." என்றும்.
" You will not die. " என்றும். Hero He will not die. என்றும். Afabet keep in touch It will be
Nall என்றும். From you With Nakfa Solders I will not return. என்றும். You are jealous. : Chow »
I said so. Emotionally Cheek The cheek Turn over I kissed him ---
I am confused. என்றும்.
" Don't be afraid. " ; Victory Ours is it என்றும். " We will win, " he told me . It is
Don't forget. Kiss me. என்றும். And He went. என்றும்.
Riametan I mentioned it. Northern Flower என்றும். Her smile as a
closed Moon It is fascinating. ; Invites என்றும்.
" one more time See you later. hope " I have it ," I said. என்றும்.
« In the name of system என்றும். Asmara Narrow "She is ," she said to me . என்றும்.
« Tigrinya Education E ....
" all right Bracelet But Free of charge is not "
« What I asked for , price I will pay ...»
« Stupid What if ?!
« Like you Without Teacher I found it. " I don't swear, " she said.
Picture came என்றும்.
" tomorrow "Okay ?" I said. என்றும்.
« Wanted Indent If you don't tell me all right Tomorrow » I have என்றும்.
 Goliath's Disdain
 Goliath's Failure
" Monday December 19 , 1974 Fata If you raise them Individuals
" Me" One Colonel With the rod Heard has been என்றும். Xesemon Stick Invitation
! Out! Directly Who went? to the The office has been என்றும். most of the time
; The time What is going on? In the office Inside is it என்றும். Sometimes Here
' Yes. End He/She will stay overnight. என்றும். The office Sometimes Office Appearance And so on #
 Rich person Salon is it It seems என்றும். From black Skin made
Wow Big Sofa two People In your opinion He sleeps. என்றும். Colonel
 With the rod The sofa On On the back Tangalo Roof The roof Reply
 T It will be raining -- the roof Mora As The enemy Pick and choose
;Mehaje ; Introduction exit What to read It seems என்றும். hit
Knock Thick But Happy that face Not most of the time Time
Enemy Strategy Tactical is it என்றும். often Time The beard
 When shaving His face It cuts. என்றும். And It is cursed. என்றும். He left it. Electrician
Beard Razor He doesn't like it. என்றும். Ordinary Beard Razor Equipment and Gillette
Blade Happy It says --- Shilt Do it. Listen carefully. .
Colonel With the rod The office When it arrives Meliodas The seven it becomes white
 careful Accepted என்றும். Light Invisible Or
Closed Office There was no என்றும். He If you don't dismiss Who His father The office
Closed It's true ! Everyone Cursing :; Yawning : Sleeping ;
 Their hearts Until it collapses Until Coffee Drinking : Kiss them. Until then
Because Driss Sijara While smoking ; Their eyes Until it burns Trouble
Let them Please. Until Today's date Report Writing They will stay. என்றும்.
all of them They hate him. என்றும். Joke Never என்றும். work out என்றும். It works #»
From work other person Weighing other Measurement don't have என்றும். Who
The maker person All The friend It is at work. Size person Provides:
It will go away. என்றும். So all of them Throw it away. But Disrespectful person The
Fertile என்றும். It is if From being loved Rather Respect He/She chooses என்றும்.
; The longest Crossing the corridor Office Opened Oratun Year What happened? In the world Enough for me. has been என்றும். Colonel's ;
 Read # Light Abera என்றும். The office Smell Happy I don't have it. என்றும். The door Workneh Gebeyehu person is it called five Year Firm Prison
Inside The one who closes Opening Automatically Key Because He was sentenced. என்றும். Same as a To call The office Found Government
! Himself Closed என்றும். The door On has Special Mirror Inside to the Outside . Enemy Public Enemy is it because Principle The usual Work
Clear As shows என்றும். From outside to the Inside But Solid is it என்றும். . Wun From working Except In this General the kingdom Money To overthrow
to the Bath at home He went. என்றும். From the stone Marble made Big : Government Experiment Inside Played Role There was no என்றும். But
Relaxed Bath Home , it is என்றும். The urine Shena என்றும். The shoulder He didn't have enough. என்றும். four Year From the bottle Later With mercy Released
four Corner As See you later. Wind என்றும். His face Well done a bit Odoko to the Already The work To return Done. என்றும். even if Faith
Log When painting All The mirror Inside What is visible Own Appearance I am not. Come Where to throw Official I was not. என்றும். Therefore At work
In the winter என்றும். Picture You are welcome. has been The mirror Inside What is shown - : On Growth Or Appointment Without giving it So Discarded Quna
 Small His eyes --- are shining. Smart Sharp His face --- like Blade As Waited என்றும். From year to year Year He Appointment Passing by : He / She / It
The one who cuts Be active The head என்றும். Colonel With the rod first Time Their day People The boss Are becoming Staying This As much as Internal
by itself Condition Surprised " From the enemy . " Appearance Condition other His own ! foot Fire As We will not be disappointed. has been என்றும். Rather * : Inside Inside
Appearance By contract I don't see you. While Trouble From the beginning It's over. என்றும். Bone as a Nod Eating it so true The one who is angry The one who is upset
What is visible thing All Enemy Appearance In Cha It has become --- by itself D. was thing Faith From where it doesn't fall Government Side Well-groomed ;
Right replacement என்றும். in case In this Work On a lot Era Because I stayed. And by the people To as a People Enemy Counting Without
it will be Say I remember. என்றும். In his life other Work holding Never என்றும். Choice When working Staying has been என்றும். My work To release Effort Yes.
From the university in 1949 College Politically Science By degree The Derg * is released. Official There was no என்றும். The government
 Graduated As soon as it comes out The hired one Quietly Protection Office at home Secret Know Where ! Oh, don't leave him. thing Secret knows : *
In ! has been என்றும். Himself Colonel Workneh Gebeyehu has been Hired என்றும். hundred Don't appoint him. Free Unbelievable. என்றும். So Massage has been fate
Gondar From being other About " Intelligence " H Work nothing else Experience , instead என்றும். Blood Bread என்றும்.
Or Knowledge All the same என்றும். But Here it is. In the same way Work On
Available என்றும். The idea Twenty Ohmst Era Oh, back. Stopped. Ride என்றும். Ethiopian Wide People Revolution Suddenly From the side as long as Edge
In these Years Inside If we do them Stop Things Or If I find Like a torch Engaged Your conscience With relief Breathable made
Their Victories His heart It is not swollen. . Rather something Emptiness Heard it. என்றும். M: Scott If he doesn't open it If only Special Drunk As In the rest has been என்றும்.
Empty Heart என்றும். Empty Soul என்றும். Empty Life என்றும். I didn't read it. என்றும். Child I don't know. Since 1966 Alcohol Sijara What are called Things Touched
 For blood --- for his name Name. Alone : Only --- in this Wide " Adam " Taste Fasting Oh, yes. Turned over They were released. That In the evening Let's be
. Ba : Oh T
Inside என்றும். And His age Pushed என்றும். No more What To be continued -- the vast People Ho Say took off From the past The crimes All Free
Retirement ? Noon Shadow The Kurlelu His age We didn't chase him. என்றும். Long  What did Apparently The 19th என்றும். And Revolution In Ethiopia If it is ignited
The gray hair I hate it. என்றும். The gray hair Let me think. Donated Glory Mogs  strong Faith Because of it At work On Faith and hope
- I don't see it. என்றும். Gray hair Disrespected There is time ! , falling He went. என்றும். The vast People Benefits Majesty Opposite
- Datosara if so Government Side Standing as a People Enemy and Suppressor
In the past Twenty five Years Inside Yakabeyowe - the secret ; being counted From working Risun By alcohol : In prostitution In Sijjar
Experience Wherever He didn't reach it. என்றும். From twenty The morning Injustices Inside Slowly But Of course To kill Ready was person Dead
 On Split என்றும். The mind Eye Picture By the way Look.
Geth Spirit Reformation Found His heart Don't do it. Started என்றும். His behavior was ... என்றும். Long For Time Silence Say When aiming If it lasts Later Shigure
at all changed " To classify. " Enemy Compassion Or Kindness Massa | Massa It's cold. Place On Back He hung it. Special Special Tools ;
 Where Shameful Action is it Or as a Fear Counted To laugh . Target Separate Driving and Fitting * alone Sit down. Say In another
In the should என்றும். From the class Struggle Above Or Outside something Conscience is here . No Yes Targeting It is common. என்றும். It entertains. என்றும். other Having fun
 From the clergy Praise Words It's not better. என்றும். Intelligence Function The good Tea Gentle If there is The office Or the house Alone Sit down. Say " Soli"
 Soldiers Obligation It is " revolution " Judgment at home is it has who is it ? Ter » play has been என்றும். as a Napoleon Bonaparte What started
Revolutionary Sword nothing else even Like one Sometimes Innocent People ! Solitaire » Game If it doesn't finish What army If it is released : Land and Sky
Neck On Even if it falls ; Strength Victory To beat should 1 snort the world What If it is mixed Shake Or Funk He doesn't say என்றும்.
the rest : Narrow Thought-provoking They are tired. Scholars Superstition .
 Deception it will be என்றும். Revolution It seems Case No, it is not. என்றும். Be | . rab The assistants The door On Sorted By seeing Table
 We say What we bring Thing - no என்றும். Himself When for Process The tree On What was Key By a thief The finger install it has என்றும். The door happened
 It's # okay If they say From me Answer Clear and Short is it என்றும். nothing else Open என்றும். four Youth Follow me. Enter என்றும். All Eye Laughter
We hear. What ; History Capitalism He/She is free. என்றும். Capitalism Third என்றும். When they dig it Old It seems All Hair Danced
 Missing But Resident is not என்றும். Withering But Blooming Oh! Ni It looks like. Their faces Tiredly Prophet என்றும். They built it. Cravat Here and there
 Delem என்றும். History Judgment is it என்றும். in order to Socialism Complain : Didi Lost என்றும். Dark has Young so true Short is it என்றும்.
 Useless "It is, " he says . This The belief From reading Found No, it is not. A ] Hab so true Proud feel like என்றும். Ask. Young Short
 Directly Experience But என்றும். Therefore :; Insufficient Knowledge and Long time no see. called person is not என்றும். Shy Like is it என்றும். The
 Experience The revolution To serve Everywhere Those who are angry and those who are angry . Youth In height Long such as as From the eye Who
 What are you afraid of? People Strongly He hates -- " For the revolution. " From the blood Yarada The voices They seem to என்றும். Reds they are என்றும். One
Gave Benefit The revolution On What they cause Damage often Time hundred " The sun " Glasses Did என்றும். All four Look Good ;
I weigh it. Available. Saying என்றும். In the revolution Train To travel Flowing health Youth they are என்றும். Colonel With the rod Heard All four Ordinary
 Lage People Home Are they too many ? But How many? they are The revolution Boil, Saw it. Their faces On What is visible Fatigue If you consider Later
 In fact To serve The train On Are they leaving ? In bulk? Passengers "I feel sorry for them ." என்றும். Why? is it These Children as a Donkey
Reason how many Damage : how many Disaster Did it arrive ? How much ? thing Did you say that ? Saying "What ?" himself Without asking It's gone. என்றும். Answer
how many at home Did it break ? How much? Life in vain Lost ? In this way such as What It was given and it was thrown away . Red Star Campaign Public Dehanne
People Reason Socialism By the way Zoo People To The hatred and Leave Shan Enough Responsibility in case The highest The last The duty
buy We are disappointed. என்றும். And Be Also Red Star Campaign என்றும். how many Me Lemra ( above ) For the past Twenty five Years The one who has been
Avonabage : how many Thorn I will reward you. bye ; how many Profitable Merchant Nab Danna Knowledge as a Gold on fire Tested The quality Visible
Come ! Is it ? Each one person Life History Regarding I The end that knows என்றும். For the Jubilee Festival For himself What he thought
Information Work ( biographical) Intelligence ) is complete. " Absence " And And the fall it becomes The development In these Children shoulder ;
thing We didn't chase him. என்றும். In all thing It's a work of chance ! Hand ' with' From Mihat On Rested As it is Size Day and Night as a
The time Looked at என்றும். In the evening four Time As has been " Angry ; Ria " From working other Choice I didn't have it. என்றும். These Children
10 From the bathroom the house went out என்றும். as a slave Where it works And another Hidden Reason Had என்றும்.
- Again Thinking : When they see them What happened? Compassion The region He took it out.
One Wall On In the past Hanged From what is visible Special Special . Their imagination Work ! From power. Owl in the past Work Advance
 Caliber Guns Inside one Downloaded Invisible Target 1
Must - I Twenty five Year I serve. Where Did I arrive ? Donkey Colonel With the rod Regular The smile Showing it " So? "
The one that was installed You don't eat. To say : Forever Work Installed Hill What ? In time. Are you sleeping? to say "Yes, " he said. என்றும்.
From leaving Slope From the descent Except என்றும். Their father .
Work ! Yesterday From education at home Out Today Authority On Chapter 7 « Comrade Colonel » Yes Plant --- « Person For sleep Only
to say No ! Thinking Wait and see. Compassion and Hate Not in mixed 4 Created =
In the Feeling *« of the day Report give away I want to. In the morning. |
Lots of things i don't want என்றும். Time " It's late ," they said. # 2 '- « So ? For inflammation is it
1. All Laugh என்றும்.
" Yes, " he said. Major Patient Zedengil black " He is the one who wears glasses ." Life One Category is it என்றும். Secret Where Who
- Selkaka The nose On Adjusting -- " Time" It's late. என்றும். ; Goon Do you think so ? In women ? Guya »
" Time" 50 minute grace period Only is it the rest " ; all of them one more time Laugh என்றும்.
« But Don't you think so ?" he said. Plant என்றும்.
Work His friends Major Plant Zedengel James Bond
- While is it In a nutshell His name Those who call என்றும். beautiful Women ; Good ‹ « Yes Which will cause Disaster That one Inside is it என்றும். one day
Drink : Best Clothes Game Loves என்றும். there On Height Wait ! Right there. Buried - Don't be left behind I am afraid. என்றும். Women Guardians
 Without ; Thin : so true Look Good Young is it என்றும். Women : are என்றும். with us Work No என்றும். We are tired. Who opened it for you? Woman All Her heart
 They will die for him. most of the time Time Information The sources Women they are. What do you give? Don't you think so? என்றும். Rather We are tired. I gave it to you. Your heart is it
 Information to find It will happen. என்றும். It is From a woman Guya What Secret " You're stealing ," he said . Colonel With the rod என்றும். In the same way The idea We said
 It will be discarded. that Idiom Man என்றும். And From women Guya Secret When Tam என்றும். Next " Now, now. " Season For sleep We are in a hurry.
fear will be used : It's better. என்றும். Drinks என்றும். plays என்றும். Dangerous thing No என்றும். In this Time By the Chairman Office What To go
 Information person at all It doesn't seem like it. என்றும். The work as a Joke is it On As is Do you know ? Staff Meeting In progress is it என்றும்.
 Applicable என்றும். The thing is Really if so It leads என்றும். I'm tired. : Gentle in case Until the morning Without continuing Probably என்றும். For the past Seven
player Apparently The one who saw person Band Time Wild it will be என்றும். . Years fox Hole Who lived? Soldier For sleep I said.
With his courage At work His friends To Known Respected person is it Colum . In time sleep Sleeping Morning Morning For authority To line up
Work His friends All In his generosity you like it என்றும். From his pocket If you lose thing " I don't understand, " he said . என்றும்.
Borrowed It waters. என்றும். For tomorrow that thing don't have என்றும். Colonel next to What he said Major Seyum Graveyard has been என்றும்.
With the rod Heard Patient Zedengel At work Who loves even if " If you think about it , I disagree. Comrade "Colonel ," he said. என்றும்.
The work What does it do? Enough. Revenge Feeling it will be Say Major Seyum all the time In person Thought Disagree என்றும். black
Because we believe Shape It is called : most of the time Time The decision and  As Short is it என்றும். Peta Woman Appearance it has என்றும். The teeth so true
The estimate It is being searched. என்றும். Plant Younger brother Asmara They are 4 years old. என்றும்.
 Babai On By gun Beaten In a terrible way Condition The one who was killed I want ,
Abia Fadait has been என்றும். From him other brother It didn't have என்றும். Younger ; " On the right side " Colonel The sun என்றும்.
His brother so true He loves it. has been என்றும். From there Time Since It was ! « Our women By information Work Why? They don't deserve #2 from the separatists. With Personal War Opened . . " how '
Especially Smoke என்றும். What his friends call " fire " World affairs N Colonel With the rod as a Horse Anafana The phone Since Called. என்றும்.
is not என்றும். But Fire What is given? Translation Knowing No என்றும். The telephone Uplifting person Until found Until With his fingers The table
It is He doesn't speak. என்றும். Asmara If it comes since Fire See you later Mother It's cold. has been என்றும்.
Mix - Wood No என்றும். From Rombola Playing The time Field
Luff It has begun. என்றும். So Corner Choose Stone Throwing " Hello ?! Who ? " " Shall I say ?" he said. The table The cutting Stop.
 What is interesting? என்றும். To shake Happy He says என்றும். Stone « Operation Department ..?
By stone Collided :Dangadesibente --- When it is broken To see " Yes, it is ." Who I'm going to be happy .
The interesting thing is " therefore " San From him With From Rombola Play 1 « Colonel "Alemayehu ..." ;
 He doesn't want to. என்றும். Colonel He loves it -- at its best. ; In vain என்றும். Tso Colonel Alemayehu என்றும். Colonel With the rod i am என்றும். With the rod Heard »
The strong * in the cruel என்றும். Cruel is it என்றும். Mercy don't have என்றும். By Colonel " What?" Your voice " Are you my neighbor ?"
Criteria Base cool Information person so-called : Fast Brave ; ; « In weakness it will be " .
1 cruel ; Smart And Undrinkable Like a hawk Without person is it #
Shape Where to go thing If there is Angry Because Information In " Christmas" Oh my. Caught ! Many We are left with என்றும். Listen. Colonel Alemayehu என்றும்.
log on Weight To know Christmas Inability Only is it என்றும். This Dingula Bandits Us To shock and And the people To scare To -
well The one who is beaten " If it is found, " he said, " it is a fish ." He said, " Asheberko ." என்றும். What you planned Trick As is By information We have found it. என்றும். From now on minute
 Since In prayer ; Godaphina In a storm Through are Quiet
. Terror Speaking a bit It will collapse --- « In general By the people | Forces Security Their own so true Expand They should என்றும்.
Ancient Organizations and By the government Office Houses has Protection Launcher They are holding that estimate Yes என்றும். Back The responsibility From you
Strengthened என்றும். so true Good Condition On Available " He said . Report From me Head I won't go down. என்றும். Are you in ? Head The nation over here Sitting
Tun He continued -- " But The people To scare and The campaign Now - Bandits over here City Inside To thing If they do Back What
hope To cut one something Factory Or Come on. Marirefayagu What is it called ? Me so true Scary The action What causes Po
To hit one Preparation Did that Information There is ...» Tika Damage is it என்றும். Listen. Alemayehu என்றும். Favor is not I ask.
Say - Qah என்றும். Do is it " I'm telling you ... now " The telephone Goodbye
Colonel With the rod The speech Stop it. " The information Source to the Terror Reflecting " What else ?" he said . என்றும்.
 what Is it ? Or So By chance Reached Disgust Is it ? Who brought it ? Information Like no other Time Stunned to the Side Without dropping
Fortunately Work Place We don't have any. Realistic thing is it But Chance Urgently Use On To be used By doing Asheb Inside
Recommendation "No ," he said. . . Inside. Enjoying " Another one " The city People Anxiety
! Case is it என்றும். The people one thing it will be Saying In time It's over. என்றும்.
 Bandit The moon White :Deyenesib Work is not . . the road All It's empty. என்றும். Inside Inside us The people Arousing
Today In this City I didn't step on it. Place No என்றும். In prayer Through Gangsters Fans are there என்றும். But The source I want to reach it. No, no.
Launcher Contained a few Bandits Their appearance Kand Farmer I sent it. என்றும். In the middle From the market Lost என்றும். Price It's raining. என்றும். The people Tar
I confirm. என்றும். Their purpose What ; Which one ? To know Al Gone என்றும். Dangerous Condition In progress is it என்றும். The people Massacre To come
I managed. என்றும். But one Factory Or Air The accommodation It will be ; oh Say so true He/She is afraid. ; "He is scared " if he says Later The note
I think " I guess, " he said . ' He turned it over . " From two " Kebeles six Kebele Elected
Not enough. என்றும். Desire Alone Wherever It doesn't arrive. என்றும். Wisdom and Method
Today " They are gone " The upper ones ; The kebeles Numbers and ' to be added ' should என்றும். Speech I multiplied. " I think so ," he said . The time
The lost People Names Told him என்றும். If you look Later ; " even if From the past Our mistake to learn
 . We must என்றும். From the past The mistake Unlearned Revolution Revolution No, no.
Colonel With the rod Note When taking Wait and see. " About man " Evening . " What ? " The speech Next, " The 1966 Revolution" When it explodes
Door : In Care Of Grain Destruction and Price Manar My grace Hailemariam Shabia Power What As much as As it was Did you know ? Out of 450
On television cool As He presented it. என்றும். The people No more than a ' calm ' has been It is called என்றும். From 1967 to 1969 Time
Function Political Department 2 Broadness is it என்றும். a lot Christmas a lot Who Inside Only About 8000 to 10,000 People to the Shabia
 made he said என்றும். So kind Information We are strengthening. For politics Sick : Entered Being It is said என்றும். Why ? A lot. Reasons Were என்றும்.
Riya If we give It is useful. என்றும். Public Secret Confidentiality No ' main The main ones Only From many Little by little pointed out Enough. என்றும்.
What? என்றும். A T Ndelti » Deru , tomorrow They enter. that Ethics Psychological
: ! Situation Mandatory has been என்றும். Who In the end Victory Who Disgusting
« In us too Through High Caution To do Needed | Will it be ? --- Time Question has been என்றும். By whom ? Or What? I am recommended.
Friends என்றும். Insufficient Evidence People to have : Arrest : For questions Am I going to leave ? --- Another Questioner « 10 th
Dinner We don't have to. என்றும். From here Action More People Interesting Tea Q Victory Locality Veteran There என்றும்.
thing No என்றும். so true Be careful. We must # My right Dare : Yes. Power It swelled. என்றும். But : Victory Locality Veterans Number
The most : Separatists In class The country The ones who were captured Dominance Or
My freedom Touched that person If too much Our work It doesn't work. என்றும். Collaborator
We will not find it. என்றும். This one period Country People i know it என்றும். Oath They are conducting Propaganda Only Not , For the revolution We are standing.
1. - What they say Of some Individuals and These Individuals leadership
I have lived. என்றும். worker is it என்றும். Hello Seeker is it என்றும். Rumor Don't be afraid. , They give them Office Houses They delivered. Disaster
Goodbye என்றும். It is doubtful. என்றும். And Also Soon It rains. என்றும். In 1967 | Disaster including has been என்றும்.
In a thousand Counted People In Bergew forest Entered By a bandit " The people's Security To protect and The government and The people
S Call ; Or some People As they say , " Freedom" Against ; To approach Established Organizations to the Disaster Where they are leaning
Because he is hungry. went out We say together Drum Hitting us Let's go. Saying Only Reason ; And one Of the time Condition : In short Time Inside Personal
. is not என்றும். Most of them From fear due to has been Those who left என்றும். For the sake of Benefit To be able to Suitable Because ; And two ; In class The country
person Condition In payment To be blamed should என்றும். Fear and Terror In the heart Highly Authority On were Individuals In the situation Used
Their When we leave them What Do it ? Wholesale Judgment ; mass Ten Personal Political Their desires To satisfy The ones who are going to Hidden
away ; mass Murder if so People Their lives To save to run Trick has been. In my opinion Haile Trinity Time The government Eritrea
They must என்றும். Leader Gangster If not Except ; For life ; For Condition Using their own Material Desire Political Root
Btuna For his freedom Warranty has person Got up Desert shouldn't என்றும். Tan To promote Unrelenting Effort who do Officials Let's
Crazy is not என்றும். Then Terror and Hate Created by The revolution Those who helped ; those who were called History Recorded என்றும். General's Nadeauna The troops Action
What do they think? Agade Infant Cadres Were என்றும். some in case From the prince Head Tenth Cash The companions Action
Glutton And bribes Were என்றும். it becomes saying the problem By aggravating For the poor With purpose it becomes In content None And two as Available என்றும்.
Their purpose The revolution To hide Hidden Trick And those who are drunk .
Individuals Were என்றும். right now That Time It's over. என்றும். Let's not doubt. என்றும். " Well then." : These Weaknesses For the people Meberegga For you
Rather Our profession Body is it. I am cruel. Let's be என்றும். Gangster Without The bandits Power Swelling Directly it becomes Indirectly Road
Kane other Language Never என்றும். But For what we do thing All Go away. Do your part. contribution Did #
Nouns Let's be என்றும். Revolutionary Feeling Fire ; Burning Alone
| เ - « In due time Silence To honor came from National army
 called Be known was Army Why ? For whom ? As if fighting .. ;
 Never has been It is called என்றும். Eritrean People on the whole Gangster It is " people" With doubt From the road They are being buried. என்றும். The arrested People
 that Faith Had என்றும். The spear In small thing Soon Because I'm angry . to the Appropriate Examination Class Transgression When they deserve it : Research
 The culprit From the well Without distinction In the dark Of resentment Revenge action ‹ raw Right there It will happen. என்றும். And the action Right there will be taken என்றும்.
 takes என்றும். Robbery It will take place. ; Women and Girls He dares. . Responsible ; Questioner No என்றும். The man Arrived Don't forget
 Shot If you drop Later stand up says என்றும். Awesome Action has been என்றும். Taste என்றும். For the property Receipt It is not given. என்றும். Silence ; Silence என்றும். From the city
 Desert Hedo pass away better than Saying Capacity has His soul With ... out . Checkpoints On Strangled Or Forgotten Available Corpse a lot
 Her daughter came out. Her face When it rains From the sky mother She has been reduced. She waited. என்றும். Who was # ? Killed him ? With what? Reason ? Asking ; Answer
 B. It gives No என்றும். dead person Mouth don't have ; He doesn't speak. என்றும்.
« In the end On Ear Support To say ; On the 10th Brigade But Revolution Dumb is not ! .
 Ongoing Asmara City Internal Protection Responsibility Given . 88
 Power has been என்றும். At the Expo Employment Courtyard Inside Own Investigation « From the Derg Examination Class Sent Special Investigation Team
Fire ; Own Prison at home ; Own Judgment at home Had என்றும். As soon as : Also called Body has been என்றும். The team Members Subordinate Officials
 For the sake of It binds. . Without Judgment Death Punishment It will be fine. என்றும். Even though they are here ; outside With a sense of humor In a nutshell Title has been
Same Reason Right there He will be buried. என்றும். Those who are being poured ; Those who are beaten : Known என்றும். Yaham Team Own Blow Comrade :his own Examination
 Those who are arrested Those who are forgotten People Most of them Against Revolutionaries Class Under the root Established Like Decision Give has been என்றும். Who ?
 as It wasn't. By bribe : By a woman Personally Resentment Revenge Reason . What? Reason Arrested ? Who? As soon as it comes out Is it left ? Revolution God
has been என்றும். Money Is it beautiful ? Wife Did she say it ? Today What Inside  Only has been The answer Who knows !
Silver From the bank Those who say, " Shall I go out ?" Easy Questions To death May 1st
Always has been என்றும். Special Special Mission Have lived From the desert In the forest Introduction « In due time was Public Organization Temporary Writing
 Small Information ; And at home The young man By the way in terms of Played Role - easily
Those who return some People it becomes saying giving Estimated is not என்றும். Narrowly Nationalism and Blindly Jab
 As is Amen Say Acceptable Condition Because it was ; Separatists For you Forestry Feeling Leading Individuals in the There were " therefore "
Diya What do you want? People In the same way Internal Protection Organization By From the organization Their sides Rather Distraction Their sides Ailo See you later.
Wanderer Road They are satisfied. has been என்றும். dead He doesn't speak. என்றும். Quiet Say has been என்றும். Revolution Continuous Process Because it is as a Pond - water
It's gone. என்றும். Fortunately Revolution Deafness Blind No ! One! Place On Stepped It won't stop * Flowing Water Calling goes என்றும்.
Conducting : Union « Today This All past History is it என்றும். Our revolution Democrat
« from this other ; the same Function Conducting F | Metn legend History No Our library U
Oh my. called Class has been என்றும். This Class Responsibility ; The guilty . Grandma Tin . " T " , Next: Dulo
To seek - to seize ; The city Silence Secretly Control : Yes Small Requires என்றும். Human Child Basic Rights However
Work People at home Check and From crime Action With Related To honor Duty Requires என்றும். This If we do People's Heart
Small Properties Only For the sake of The case To whom it may concern Class I received it. Where we don't draw Reason No என்றும். The people Himself He joins us. என்றும்.
Submission has been என்றும். The room Established Purpose This When From here For his safety Unthinking Creature No என்றும். Our work More - . Done Available என்றும். Public to be Can என்றும். Security Public Case is it என்றும். Minis
Text such as Hanta Done. Oh ; - Our planet. Name From silence to the People Security And what changed?
] ! Let's use it . that Question On is it Fasting Don't let them ruin you. Sorry
Let's go . என்றும். Bribery Prayer Those who like a lot they are என்றும். This R Often
No, 2, as we show. Example The people Heart Attraction A | person World affairs hole Coin You won't leave. என்றும். In Gabe
to say is it , ' Zaha Morning In the morning That's right. Don't bother me. : That's right. Or Children
Release me. : For a guy Or For the girl Passport He/She/It expelled.
stop Mida Wax M Wow Manya Ars Ranch problem Lagat Say His eyes Stare Coming என்றும். From the middle Country coming
Tat We got up. Yaru C day Break We thought. என்றும். But Red Star person All For their problems All Solution What benefits them It seems
Yemen Purpose என்றும். Jim It is # sustainable . Our purpose By the peoples Mecca They -- especially The women என்றும். Be careful. Friends என்றும். In mediation
If we ask her believe To be born is it Mina 5th floor Nerve Rn S In Reason as if Explain is it. Riza
If there is Each other In our case Murder Even One of us For another What T Lu
thing To grow Probably என்றும். Each Action Behind him Price
Death day To see It is » I am tired. something Reason " He said , " The speech As soon as it's finished Ah, yes.
.. « More Information " I have it ," he said. Seyum In the long run Yawn. Also Seyum His hand Take out என்றும்.
Later shout › shout Plant Be patient. Seyum With hatred Eye Look at it. என்றும்.
Yawn என்றும். Tired என்றும். The time Looked at என்றும். hope Cut it out The chair
« Kadisaba Those who came People Case so true I'm worried ... " Convenient Sat down என்றும். The fourth person :; Major Garuda
" How ?"] Officer a lot Speaking person is not என்றும். Silent is it என்றும். Myada
« In every shop : Every coffee the house ; Every way ; The visible ones Who are they? . That Don't worry. Time Wait. என்றும். Multiplicity Sas To the moon Hora
Only they are என்றும். in case right now to the Babylon If we go Our camp The cat Her Gu
The big ones too Every « Secret Entered They are shaking. : They tremble. " From saying, ' Turn it over !'" other Yes
They said it. Be available it will be. R If it happens to them Whose Risk Zaz Never என்றும். In politics Prisoners On What is used? Psycho
They are tired. என்றும். Back one thing Logic If there is ; Sometimes as a Friend Presented They are worried. :
It will be ," he said. என்றும். He plays them. என்றும். In this Method What he wants If not found : Or
For the question Good luck Answer If they don't give To sneeze It starts என்றும்.
Must என்றும். over here We came. For a picnic is not . But one T Rn Mime His face Turned Day Prisoner All Where there is Stand up.
By you When leaving is it Used - When robbed Whip Wow
thing we will do என்றும். Follow us. Report To do We have to -- Night From his wife From the children With Peace be upon you. Gently While playing
"Some of them ," he said. என்றும். To see person It's amazing. என்றும். Family person is it என்றும். The family so true
Loves : Respects என்றும். Evening He doesn't like it. என்றும். Sleepy is it.
Yen " Tom " Night Quickly He sleeps --- peace sleep என்றும். So If he dies Night
« Cost We don't have any. என்றும். Information ( Not available without money ) என்றும். Without money Investigation Work It does not work. Or To be held He doesn't. என்றும்.
nothing else to make Not possible என்றும். Money We need ..." All Peace ; sleep To sleep Wants என்றும். Colonel With the rod
Ku In a nutshell The one who is angry I see. : Your name : In a nutshell In his heart a bit Psychology If you learn right now What Did he have to ? to the
Lonely
Hey you Money I need you. என்றும். Your pocket hole it has I think so ? Because of us .. Shoro: " Okay." What It was. Say He asked. என்றும்.
Guard Think about it. என்றும். It's full. என்றும். Rather The problem has how 'Skillfully '
Seyum Thin His lips Amotmutu " Friend " Colonel : This is " bandit" If not, then When It says ..."
 London Finally Time It is said What is being said? thing Happy " No , then. " who is it all right Say By his will Information What is given ? »
 "Me too ," he said. " Like us . " has Sub From my side --- shoes and Comfort The usual.
' " how to say No Christmas Without copying it is it We are sold out. We are angry. The one who is being deceived ...»
! « Red Star Campaign Planned For three month is it ; No ; Yes. Saying The report To continue Invite him/her என்றும்.
" Why ?" " Soon. " From Nakfa Escape Entered Wanted Goosebumps As it is
« It may be It won't happen. Can ...» 1 Gerut Wegen army line up Information They have arrived. என்றும்.
  Wegen Army « in three month Inside the problem London For auction Time line up Condition Only Not The quantity and The strength All Oh
We will solve. We say publicly To speak ill of For our politics cool I don't think so. Leave. " .
For me too "W " " Theirs " Condition how is it "They say ?"
" all of them Prisoners Because they are About gangsters army Quantity
" Why ?" Sa Organization Those who know thing No என்றும். But High Fear ; Mo
« Back If not for us Bad estimate Separate He throws us. I think is it | Ral Failure and Hunger As they have experienced They say என்றும். Mostly
Total And that country leadership Danger On It throws This. Point out The opportunity If you find To escape As you wish They say என்றும்.
Our duty I think ...» Therefore The protection so true They are strengthened. It is called என்றும். Be
 Tau Here it is. It is, but What I found Useful Information If only ...» .
" cool is it என்றும். But " Don't worry ," he said . Colonel With the rod : Say Unfinished , Colonel In the " What" tab is it He ? With whom ?
« In three month Inside In this period Country what is Problem | He asked. 2
 Finally Time We will solve. Without No என்றும். Of course By
Continue Three Months Certain Goal To hit Planned ( « Frenchmen Poison Smoke Protective " mask " in abundance
But the problem London Finally Time To solve The struggle Continue ; They gave it to them. that Information "Yes ..."
No என்றும். What Inside Time As it takes Knowing No என்றும். This " Don't you tell me ?"
 in terms of It is said. Appearance and Translation Where is it? Point « True is it " .
It is propaganda and Agitation Class In this On Caution To do Colonel Note Taking ; French Also over here
should என்றும். other Point has Is there ?... Okay. Wanted Examination Room Inside What Did they understand ? She is என்றும். This Stir Gasoline Not
We let go என்றும். Major " Garde " he said. என்றும். Do it. thing No என்றும். Americans too If they are They won't sleep with us. என்றும்.
By spying Their satellites Without helping them They will not remain. என்றும். This War
Major Garuda Mekun The sound Gornana is it என்றும். Speaking in case Most in the future What we are changing Foreign Connection
From boredom due to Unspoken feel like என்றும். The eyes Fast * Policy looks at என்றும். But What To do "Can we ? What ?"
Fast such as as Reds they are என்றும். Appearance Angry Lion he said Angrily என்றும்.
 Face feel like என்றும்.
all of them Silence They say என்றும். They give Answer They didn't have என்றும்.
« not much Information don't have Today » is என்றும். It is First of all He didn't want them to answer. He asked the question.
 You are welcome. a lot People A I'm going to copy you. " I thought you said " For himself has been Presented by என்றும். as a Horse Wind என்றும். Eye Our glasses
Colonel Bashmur , take it off In white Prayer Clear # Ten Ten Time Our glasses
